mr president, can i congratulate the rapporteur, mr langen, and also congratulate the commissioner on her speech to parliament this evening? it is crucially important that we have a fair competition policy to ensure that the single market works for everyone. we have to make sure that if dominant players are abusing their position then we have a strong position against that, and i very much agree with what the commissioner said this evening in terms of adapting more power to national competition authorities. it is really important that more power be vested in the 28 competition authorities, and that they can go after bad practice wherever they see it. i also agree with her that we need global enforcement, especially at an oecd level. my concluding remark is that, where investigations are taken up by the commissioner and her dg, it is crucially important that they are brought to a speedy conclusion. it is important that they are evidence-based and that they are legal-based, not based on political rhetoric from this house or elsewhere, not based on an anti-us bias, which sometimes is heard across this chamber, but are based on fact and evidence, not based on supposition. i think it is crucially important – as the point was made some time ago – that where those investigations are taken up they are concluded in a timely way. it does not help competition policy in europe for extended investigations to be taking place over a four- or five-year period. i greatly respect the commissioner, as she knows; we worked in a previous life together. i also know that many of these cases were taken up by her predecessor. it is now time to resolve them for competition policy, for a fair industrial policy and for a level playing field across the european union.
mr president, i wish to thank the commissioner and our rapporteur, mr langen. i am very happy that this report deals with real bread-and-butter issues, and i am referring here to the remarks in the paragraphs on the food supply chain. this is an issue that the committee on agriculture is working very hard on. we have concerns around unfair trading practices, and i suppose there is a question, commissioner, of when unfair trading practices become anti—competitive practices. the issues for us are around the sustainability of the food supply chain in a situation where the suppliers of inputs to agriculture are becoming more concentrated, the processors of agricultural products are becoming more concentrated and the eventual retail markets are in the hands of a very few. this is about choice for our consumers as well as about fairness for our producers. i hope, commissioner, that you understand these points that i am making and i know that tomorrow we will have an opportunity to exchange views in a meeting on this issue. this is an important matter.
i'm sorry, but i'm not going to cry. cheapas nach nglaofaí orm. what are you doing here? they say in english that the best goods come in small parcels. that applies normally to people like myself, i can say tongue in cheek, but can also apply to countries. in this respect, it fits the bill for luxembourg one of the smallest, but at the same time, most central and most committed member states of the european union. i'd like to compliment them on the excellent job they did over the last six months. they made wonderful progress in many areas and worked very efficiently, particularly in the area in which i was involved data protection trilogues. i must say that laura wagner, who represented the council, was very confident, competent, fair and firm and i think that at the end of the day we did succeed in getting the data protection regulation finalised. while not everyone is happy, that's probably a good outcome for a regulation. we have done it and i have no doubt it will stand the test of time. former commissioner reding, who initiated it, is also, of course, from luxembourg.
mr president, there is no doubt about it: start-up after start-up, idea after idea, app after app, the digital sector is becoming more and more prominent in our lives, but we have not kept pace with it. in fact, it is 22 years since amazon was set up, 18 years since google, and 12 years since facebook, and yet it is only now that we are really getting down to the business of trying to complete the digital single market. it is no wonder that we are well behind the united states and asia, but it is better late than never. the important point now is that we do so rapidly, but also extensively, and get it right, because 28 different markets are not going to suffice anymore. we have to harmonise what can be harmonised and look particularly at issues like geo—blocking, which is holding up a lot of development. we also have to look very carefully at bringing consumers with us. that is why i welcome the data protection regulation, for which i was honoured to be rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and part of the trilogues. that should now give consumers trust that their data is safe, that they are in control of it, and also of course to allow start—ups to develop and businesses to grow in europe. the digital single market, if we get it right, is estimated to make eur 415 billion for the european economy. that is a lot of money in any man’s language, and certainly it requires us to make sure that we work hard and ensure that we get the digital market complete so that we will once again be the most competitive in the world.
mr president, i am speaking as a shadow rapporteur from the committee on transport and tourism. digitalisation, interoperability and intelligent transport systems are the key to efficient and effective transport systems for consumers, passengers and businesses – whether they be smes, start—ups, larger companies – all those that are moving goods and services across europe. digitalisation can help make better use of existing capacity and make those businesses more efficient and more effective – and, of course, that all results in the creation of jobs. it is very important in helping to overcome the challenges and the burdensome obligations of red tape – particularly for those delivering goods – and logistics. we need to get a point where we have e—customs and do not have drivers of heavy goods vehicles dealing with paper customs clearance forms and all the copies that go with that. this is burdensome, affects competition and reduces the potential for job creation. we also need to get to the point in the tourism sector and the sharing economy where we regulate in this area.
in writing. ‒ the mep in question accepts his immunity being waived and is not contesting it, and there is no question of political interference. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the offence had nothing to do with their political activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in relation to the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of czeslaw adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ the mep in question accepts his immunity being waived and is not contesting it, and there is no question of political interference. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the offence was not related to his political activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report in relation to the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of czeslaw adam siekierski.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which concerns the adjustment of fishing quotas for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean in light of reports by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) that stocks have increased. since there is scientific data proving that stocks are at healthy levels of abundance, it is justifiable that the total allowable catch is allowed to increase. the countries that have quotas (and that this report concerns) are cyprus, france, greece, italy, malta, portugal and spain.
in writing. ‒ the current proposal for a regulation aims at transposing into union law measures of the multiannual bluefin tuna (bft) recovery plan in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean adopted by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014. in 2006 iccat adopted a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna, ending in 2022. in order to rebuild the stock, the plan sets up a gradual reduction in the total allowable catch level from 2007 to 2011, restrictions on fishing within certain areas and time periods, a new minimum size, measures concerning sport and recreational fishing activities, farming and fishing capacity measures and reinforced the iccat scheme of joint international inspection. the proposal contains technical measures such as those on transfer and caging operations of live bluefin tuna, including also measures on the use of stereoscopic cameras to estimate the quantities of bluefin tuna and releases, catch reporting requirements, and the implementation of the iccat regional observer programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe there is a need to rebuild bluefin tuna stock in order to make it sustainable into the future. the application of the iccat recommendations will help to ensure a uniform application of the management of tuna stocks across the eu. i also strongly agree with the amendments to support small-scale and traditional tuna fisheries, especially in the inter-institutional negotiations where a review of the quota system takes place. this will help to ensure that large vessel owners will no longer have a monopoly of the quotas. likewise, i fully supported the parliament preserving its competencies regarding the transposition of the regional fisheries management organisation recommendations into eu law. parliament, as an elected institution, has a right to input into legislation rather than the commission using delegated or implementing acts which severely restricts the level of scrutiny over the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i agree with the opinion that rules should be applied in a uniform way in order to ensure a level playing-field for all operators engaged in tuna fishing, including, most importantly, non-eu operators. otherwise, all the efforts made and restrictions imposed on eu fishermen will have no result if different rules apply to foreign fleets. eu operators should not be penalised by the imposition of stricter measures than those agreed, because the commission could not impose such measures in the negotiations in iccat.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report. the report outlines technical measures that aim to bolster tuna fish stock and ensure a level playing field for all stakeholders in the tuna fishing industry.
the president, however, voted against the report in august and many of the recommendations are still being implemented and will be taken into account in the future. i'd like to have a few things to talk about in the lease. i did not vote for my colleague and the fine gael group. i read 76 (3) and read 89, and i am voting against the ccctb because we are not joining the laws. is dóigh liom gurb is dualgas an bhallstáit, agus dualgas an bhallstáit amháin, courses cannach to the rule. freisin was also voting against article 81 (2) but is likely to go further than the oecd beps initiative. oh, there's a lot of good stuff in there. especially, i welcome you to the point about farmers and the praghsanna and they get a chance to grow in the farm and a chance to grow here.
mr president, i welcome this report and have supported it and, in particular, it is noteworthy that parliament supported paragraphs 104, 105, 106 and 107. as the rapporteur for an opinion on the unfair trading practices in the food supply chain, i think this will feed into our work with the committee on the internal market and consumer protection on what proposals we might come forward with to solve the problem of unfair trading practices, and indeed help us to look at whether they are anti—competitive. i very much welcome that these are embedded in the document.
mr president, this report on competition policy contains many positive suggestions, and these include the issue of state aid in the financial sector, which can lead to the distortion of competition in this sector. crucially, i agree with the statement in the report which says that ‘care must be taken to ensure that regulation does not distort competition to the benefit of large banks’. indeed, in ireland we have a situation in which, since the beginning of january this year there have been limits on the deposits that can be placed in credit unions. credit unions are not-for-profit, member-owned financial institutions. a cap of eur 100 000 is in place for those who want to invest in credit unions. nonetheless, i believe the effect will be to freeze credit unions out of the mortgage market and limit their ability to compete on a level playing field. this, i believe, is anti-competitive, and such regulation is in conflict with eu competition policy. finally, i welcome and strongly support the call for binding action in the food supply chain against retailers harming farmers and consumers. this is long overdue.
in writing. ‒ by way of background information, this is an own-initiative report oriented to set the vision of the european parliament on the implementation of competition policy by the general directorate of competition of european commission. the competition working group of the economic and monetary affairs committee drafts every year this report with its analysis of the actions taken during the past exercise and setting its main priorities for the next year. there were some positive provisions contained within this report such as a focus on abuses of dominant positions and cartels. moreover, there were progressive provisions in relation to addressing the issue of state aid particularly in the financial sector however, there were many other provisions which overstepped the competitiveness of the eu, for example a call for a european legislative framework and also the focus on the introduction of the ccctb. it was for these reasons, that i abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ the report commends competition commissioner vestager for good cooperation with the european parliament, and meantime explicitly demands greater involvement of parliament in competition matters through the ordinary legislative procedure. the report states for the fifth consecutive time that the temporary state aid in the financial sector was necessary for the stabilisation of the global financial system but must be quickly reduced or totally removed and scrutinised as a result of the completion of the banking union. it calls on the commission to put a stop to social dumping, and emphasises that competition policy decisions must take particular account of the social impact in remote or isolated regions. according to the report, the existing rules, related to competition policy infringements, on fines to be imposed on legal persons for infringements must be supplemented by ongoing penalties against the natural persons responsible. it calls on the commission to incorporate the rules on fines, for example those imposed in cartel proceedings, into a legislative instrument. concerning the digital economy, the report notes that the original market models of the competition policy may be inappropriate for the digital economy, and the use of price-based indicators in this dynamic economic sector often fails to achieve the desired outcome. that is why i have voted for this report.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against this report due to a number of sensitive issues concerning ireland, namely ccctb, eu tax policy and google’s market position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report, which was concerned with promoting values of freedom, tolerance, non-discrimination and fighting racism, radicalisation and marginalisation through intercultural dialogue. i agreed with many aspects of the report for the stance it took in seeing intercultural dialogue as a two-way process, benefiting both parties and voted against amendments that sought to reduce that dialogue in any way to a teaching exercise by europeans alone. as such amendments were not included in the final text; i was able to support the report as a whole.
in writing. ‒ the european union faces diverging opinions on notions of identity and belonging. intercultural dialogue should have a larger role in education, as was suggested by the paris declaration of 17 march 2015. intercultural dialogue and education can provide for a more pluralistic, tolerant society with an emphasis on equality between citizens and a respect for human rights. culture should be recognised as a tool in peace-building and conflict resolution. civic education, provided from an early age, would help young people take part in a more democratic society. the promotion of intercultural dialogue would engage individuals suffering from marginalisation, geographic or social isolation. ngos, youth organisations and training institutions should be provided with structural assistance to help in this cultural exchange.
in writing. ‒ promoting eu fundamental values. could not support such values. bullying and domination are not my idea of values that one could support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that the european union should try and foster intercultural dialogue, cultural diversity and education especially when we consider the recent paris attacks and the massive migration challenges we are currently facing. i support the call for the eu to continue the work initiated during the 2008 european year of intercultural dialogue. the year, which helped raise awareness of cultural diversity based on common values, is important to help educate people about the values of freedom, tolerance and non-discrimination. likewise, i was happy that within the report, the rapporteur made specific reference to the cultural benefits which have been given to many young people in ireland and across europe who have participated in the erasmus+ programme. i was also happy to support the call to systematically integrate culture into the eu3s development projects and programmes and, therefore, highlight the need to remove obstacles to mobility for artists, educators, academics and culture professionals. to this end, visa procedures should be harmonised and simplified to encourage cultural cooperation with other parts of the world.
in writing. ‒ i decided to vote in favour of this report because europe represents an immense richness of cultural, social, linguistic and religious diversity, in this context, the shared values that hold together our societies, such as freedom, social justice, equality and non-discrimination, democracy, human rights, the rule of law, tolerance and solidarity, are all crucial for europe’s future. it is of great importance that the necessary means are provided, especially financially, to prioritise the funding of programmes designed to foster intercultural dialogue and dialogue between citizens in order to strengthen mutual respect in a context of strong cultural diversity and to address the complex realities of our societies and the coexistence of different cultural identities and beliefs, as well as to highlight the contribution of different cultures to european societies and heritage, and to effectively manage conflicts.
mr president, having being here in the last mandate, right throughout the recession, and seen the continuous efforts being made by yourself, commissioner, and particularly commissioner barnier at the time, to get to grips with the problems and to try and put regulation in place that would ensure that these problems did not occur again, it is good that we should now take stock and look at what is happening and indeed insulate ourselves from any occurrences in the future. the last speaker pointed out, for instance, the possible consequences of shale gas for companies and consequently for the european economy. we can take nothing for granted, and for that reason we have to be vigilant all the time. i particularly welcome the creation of a banking union and the discipline that this will bring into the whole banking system, but as pointed out we have to be on our guard continuously for the future of european citizens.
in writing. ‒ the report calls on the commission services to complete the first assessment by the end of 2016 and to report on the overall impact and, among other things, on the following: the effects on the different financial sectors, including an appropriate differentiated breakdown of the market participants by size, complexity and business model, and on non-financial entities, possible gaps and loopholes, while considering the possible development of new threats and risks; the actual and expected economic effects, as well as the competitiveness of the european financial sector in the world; the possibilities of benefiting the real economy, including smes, consumers and employment; the need to further improve existing, and extend complementary, funding channels, including the effect on access to finance for smes and mid-cap companies; the effects on supply and demand of long-term financing; the capacity of esas to fulfil the tasks given to them under the current legislative framework and on the steps that may be needed to improve the framework, especially the financing of esas in the near future. the first accumulated impact assessment should be used for a targeted examination of the overall financial services framework, whilst avoiding a broad reopening of recent legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a motion for a european parliament resolution on stocktaking and challenges of the eu financial services regulation. it also charts the way forward towards a more efficient and effective eu framework for financial regulation and a capital markets union. this own-initiative report is a step forward to address the weaknesses in financial services law-making and to voice concerns on the impact of legislative measures that have not been sufficiently evaluated before being implemented. in particular it rightly highlights the need for a thorough impact assessment of the financial services framework and the need for more proportionality in the financial services legislation with regard to policy initiatives on smes and sme funding. i fully support the introduction of an impact assessment by the commission services as well as ongoing obligatory checks to ensure that the application of financial legislation is understandable and better aligned to the needs of smes.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report due to the fact the financial crisis of 2007-2008 and its widespread negative impact were caused, inter alia, by a lack of application of appropriate, high-quality financial services regulation for increasingly complex markets and products. in recent years an ambitious reform agenda for the eu financial sector has been launched to strengthen financial regulation and supervision, restore financial stability and make the financial system more resilient to shocks, limit risks to taxpayers and better serve the needs of investors and the funding needs of the real economy. while the outlook for growth in europe has improved, full recovery has not yet been achieved. the capital market in the union remains fragmented, whereas the capital markets union (cmu) potentially offers a valuable framework to safeguard equal access to finance for smes throughout the eu and to promote innovative venues for market-based funding. there are nevertheless still specific shortages of credit to smes and micro-enterprises deriving also from economic instability and a lack of targeted solutions for the real economy. the capital-market-based context in the united states is often cited, but fundamentally differs from the banking-based eu context, and should not be copied or used as a template.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the importance of financial stability and consumer protection.
mr president, i was happy to support this report as it focuses on women and on trying to encourage them to enter the marketplace and become entrepreneurs or start up their own business. we are focusing on unemployment across europe and particularly on encouraging smes and start-ups. women have a huge untapped potential there that we need to focus on, and we need to address the issues that are challenging and preventing women from entering the workplace or indeed for having, most importantly, the confidence to start their own business. we hear about many of them, but probably childcare and access to cash would be the two most important. these are broad terms, but we indeed we need to ensure that finance is available and that access to funds is not an obstacle for women. in terms of child care, the support that society can provide – that the governments can provide – in encouraging women is very important. i agree with previous speakers that the state should stay away from behind the front door and let families operate themselves, but certainly we need to ensure that the obstacles in terms of childcare and flexible time are addressed.
the president, however, voted against the report in august and my group voted against it. now this is a topic i've been following for a number of years. i have to say that initially, when i saw the figures in relation to male and female entrepreneurs, i was very surprised at the disparity and i was wondering why there was such a disparity. my colleagues have pointed out some of the reasons, but one of them is confidence, and i think that's something that's been ingrained over the years. therefore, we have to change the circumstances; we have to remove the barriers, as they are called in this report, so that men and women can become entrepreneurs on equal footing. the same applies to access to finance. again, there's a perception that maybe female entrepreneurs aren't getting the same opportunities to get funding as men do when they want to start up, and this obviously has to change. i think it's beginning to change. in my own country, enterprise ireland has platforms and supports women for women in business, these are all developing and absolutely vital, and we should encourage them.
mr president, this is an important report on female entrepreneurship and i was very happy to support it. in fact, when we look at the figures, we see that just 31% of the entrepreneurs at eu level are women. so i suppose we have to ask the question: what can we do at a european level, to try and support female entrepreneurship? well, one of the facilities that we have available is the microfinance facility. but again, when you look at the figures for 2013, you see that the ratio of male to female applications for this particular fund was 60:40. therefore, it is clear that we need to do more at european level, and in that context, i was happy to support the amendment which called on the commission to monitor the implementation of gender mainstreaming into the allocation of eu funds in relation to entrepreneurship. i think the figures for microfinance showed that is necessary. also, i believe that the european network to promote women’s entrepreneurship helps combat stereotyping, and i am very pleased to see that the commission this year is setting up an online platform, which will provide training, advice and business mentoring. also, the creation of the business angels network, with female business angels, will be a help.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i do not see the focus on female entrepreneurship being well-placed since the government has inflicted huge cuts on the public sector where a large majority of women are working (healthcare, education and civil service). the report calls for concrete strategies to promote a culture of female entrepreneurship but strategies on gender equality and the value of women in the public sector, which are huge issues, have been neglected. for these reasons i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ the important role of the public sector and the negative effects of the last year’s austerity policies are completely absent in this report. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as encouraging female entrepreneurship is one of the core issues of the epp group with the femm committee. it is widely recognised that to bring europe back to growth and to create new jobs, the european union needs more entrepreneurs, and its strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth (europe 2020) explicitly mentions that more concrete policy initiatives are needed to develop european entrepreneurship. female entrepreneurship deserves particular attention in this context as equal economic independence is still not a given within the eu and women’s employment rate of 59.6% in 2014 at eu -28 level is not in line with the 75% employment target rate of europe 2020, nor with that of men, of 70.01%. the report wishes to specifically draw attention to the financing needs of female entrepreneurs and raise the question of indirect discrimination of women when they are starting off their companies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to encourage female entrepreneurship. increased female entrepreneurship is a key component to facilitating future economic growth and the creation of more jobs.
mr president, i am happy to support this report and the focus on young people and ensuring that they have the correct skills to gain employment. one in five of our young people are unemployed. it is higher in some countries across europe, and yet this is not a new problem. if you look at 1995, youth unemployment was at 21% also, and that is over 20 years ago now. today’s young people are more educated than previous generations, and yet youth unemployment continues to face challenges. skills development has been identified in this report, and the development of relevant skills is important. the training and education sector must move and work in this area. it must move and work in conjunction with employers, in conjunction with those who need the relevant skills but who find they do not have them in the cohort of young people available to them. so we need a renewed focus, particularly on the apprenticeship model, and to bring back the apprenticeship model. there is probably too much of an emphasis on pieces of paper and third-level education in our universities that does not provide young people with the necessary skills. i welcome the changes that have happened in my own country with the education and training boards, in which employers and those providing education and training are involved, working together to ensure young people are equipped with the necessary skills.
the president, once again, was pleased to support the report and voted with my group in all the votes cast. but of course, it's a case of truamhéalach is an amount of young people who are being hosted in the eu. in particular, i saw my own father write an economic column for young people who were qualified to go to school in the uk, and then get a letter from the same person starting with: "is there anyone else who has not succeeded in achieving a post at that time?" try them again. go to bed. i'll say it again and again and again. i didn't go to the hospital and tell them i was deaf and they went to the hospital and started to have a brain drain and they were out of breath. i'm afraid there's something going on around my country. now i'm going to be a geilleagar ag fas 6 % i år. therefore, i hope that the same will be true in the other member states of the union.
mr president, what i like about this report is that it puts forward some practical suggestions to assist the 7.5 million young people who are not in employment, education or training. in regard to the skills mismatch – and it is important to remember that this can sometimes be as much about over—qualification as under—qualification – this report proposes that we build strong partnerships between educational establishments, public authorities, local authorities and social partners, etc. to try to help integrate young people into the labour market. this can also be facilitated through second chance education. but i am pleased to see that, while the report emphasises the need to match skills and jobs, it also emphasises the importance of a holistic education. education is about life as well as work. i support the call to bring young innovative employers into the ongoing dialogue that i spoke of earlier, and also the idea of mentoring programmes designed to prepare young people for the transition from school to work deserves support. finally, the report acknowledges the importance of the creative industries and the number of jobs that can be created using traditional skills.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution primarily for the reason that it calls for the removal of barriers such as education fees for apprentices. this is particularly relevant for ireland where the government has implemented successive budget cuts for apprenticeships and are forcing apprentices to pay fees in order to gain a qualification. i am happy that my sinn féin colleagues and i managed to include this important call into the final resolution and hope that it will help in putting pressure on those in power to abolish fees for apprentices.
in writing. ‒ as the ecb forces ireland to borrow to burn it it is not possible to take this report seriously. these billions should be invested in creating youth employment instead of feeding the banking monster. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe there is a need for more flexible education systems that would allow for matching knowledge and skills at all stages of professional career to face the needs of the labour market and the alarming level of youth unemployment. the report underlines that business creation and self-employment also constitute an opportunity for participation in the labour market. it also calls for an efficient absorption of european funds by the member states. there are, on the one hand, 24 million unemployed people in europe, including 7.5 million young people not in employment, education or training (neets) and on the other 2 million unfilled vacancies in the eu. many are over-qualified unemployed youths whose skills do not match the demand of the labour market. hence the need to build up strong partnerships between local authorities, education and employment services and social partners and the business community to support the creation, implementation and monitoring of short- and medium-term sustainable and quality employment strategies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report which acknowledges the need for education systems to adapt to the needs of the labour market. the report identifies opportunities that will help combat youth unemployment and facilitate their participation in the labour market.
the president, once again, gave his support to the report and voted with my group in all the votes. there is no doubt that anything is an important subject and that if we take the laws and give them to the people, then there is no doubt that we will be among the people and we will be among the people. gan dabht ar bith is iontach an seans is seo don aontas. we can't let the public money be wasted. it is estimated that eur 415 billion of european funding is needed to achieve this. i have a question: can we do it right? chun is sin to dhéanamh i gceart, caithfimid páirc imeartha leibhéalta the chothú, in bacanna of the lucht gnó to chaitheamh amach agus is to dhéanamh níos éasca of the shaoránaigh goods to dhíol agus to buy ar an idirlíon.
mr president, i was happy to support this report on the digital single market because i think it provides a framework for our digital future. however, i did not support amendment 24, even though it was an alde amendment. this amendment – rightly i believe – tried to introduce a balance, in that it recognises that digitalisation increases autonomy and flexibility but, as well as that, it gives rise to new challenges, for example in regard to working time, burnout etc. however, i supported the original text because it asked the commission to conduct a study on the spillover effects of digitalisation and how it impacts greater labour intensity, flexibility, family life etc., as well as the development of the cognitive abilities of children. i know the world is going digital, but that does not mean that all is well and that we just blindly move forward without considering the possible negative effects of digitalisation. the digital market, like any other, does not in itself guarantee good outcomes. we need to look at its effects, positive and negative. we need to accentuate the positive and mitigate and minimise the negative.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which is in essence a strategic report for upcoming work on a digital single market for europe. my reasons for abstaining were that many crucial amendments, on issues of the utmost importance for citizens, were refused. this included articles on net neutrality, data protection, trust in digital services and open standards. net neutrality is essential to protecting consumers’ access to high-quality internet and mobile services against service providers’ increased profits. the continued neglect in enshrining this principle in the eu’s digital agenda was my reason for abstaining on this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as the rapidly evolving use of the internet and mobile communications has changed the way citizens, companies and their employees communicate, access information and knowledge, invent, consume, share, participate and work. this has expanded and changed the economy, facilitating access by small and medium-sized companies to a potential customer base of 500 million customers within the eu, as well as to global markets, and allowing individuals the opportunity to develop new, entrepreneurial ideas and business models. all union policies and legislation in the area of the digital single market should allow new opportunities for users and businesses and new innovative cross-border online services at competitive prices to emerge and grow, remove barriers between member states and facilitate access for european businesses, in particular smes and start-ups, to the cross-border market, as key for growth and employment in the eu, while recognising that these opportunities will inevitably involve structural changes and taking a holistic approach, including the social dimension, and the need for the digital skills gap to be quickly filled. building a data economy depends heavily on a legal framework that encourages the development, curation, maintenance and augmentation of databases, and is therefore dependent on a legal framework that is innovation-friendly and practical.
madam president, the presumption of innocence before being found guilty is a fundamental pillar of democracy, and it’s good that we emphasise that here this evening, but it isn’t often observed in every case. sometimes it can be difficult to observe. particularly, for instance, over the last few years, because of the economic recession, certain people became very unpopular: people like developers, bankers, and indeed politicians when they were accused of crimes and these became high profile in the media for their alleged crime. but they were often presumed to be guilty before the actual trial, and they and their families often suffered far more from the opprobrium, the angst and being ostracised as a result of it than they would from the penalty of a set amount of time in prison if they were found guilty. we definitely need to try and underpin these two basic principles as much as we can.
madam president, firstly i think that everybody agrees that these are not headline topics, but they are nevertheless very important for consumers. i think it is fantastic that we have meps here in the house who are prepared to give their time, energy and expertise in dealing with issues like this when they get very little publicity out of it. but they can be sure of one thing. their work is actually going to save the lives of european citizens because of the harmonisation of standards and ensuring that everything is done according to spec. we are covering three areas here: cable installations, gas appliances and protective equipment. obviously, in relation to cableways, we have 60% of the world’s cableways – 17 500 in europe. in my own country, the little island, dursey island, is dependent on a cable car to connect it with the mainland, so obviously, the higher the standard, the greater the security. in relation to gas appliances, we have 30 million stoves, boilers and cookers in europe. again, these can lead to major accidents. carbon monoxide, in particular, is the highest killer in relation to these. in my own country we have had a very successful carbon monoxide awareness campaign. again, having strong legislation here, harmonised across europe, is very sensible and of course helps us to complete the single market. regarding the final area – personal protective equipment – i think all we have to do is listen to vicky ford, who showed us what can happen with inferior products which can come onto the marketplace. so, by having standards set here and by ensuring they are applied, it will encourage both the producers that there is a legal framework which they can work by, and also consumers that they have the highest possible standards, which they will be able to see on the labels on the various appliances they buy.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which was basically the process by which latvia would start receiving and sharing data with nations operating within the prüm decision. although opposed to the prüm decision which allows exchange of data such as dna, fingerprints and vehicle registration data, i abstained rather than voted against as this particular procedure was concerned with mere consent to latvia joining, and therefore concerned their sovereign choice to join.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on automated data exchange with regard to vehicle registration data (vrd) in latvia, which approves the council draft and calls on the council to notify parliament if it intends to depart from the text approved by parliament.
the president, who voted against the report in august, has said that he will not vote for it because of the reasons given. for example, the recommendations there include prohibiting public authorities from providing information to the media, if it would demerit the principle of the presumption of innocence. that is a very important point. not allowing the reversal of the burden of proof principle, not allowing authorities to use force to obtain information from an accused person, and placing very strict limitations on cases where a judgment may go forward in the absence of the accused. all these elements are crucial to ensuring that we have a just and fair criminal system and that criminal proceedings are conducted in as transparent and clear a manner as possible, and this of course underpins what the european union is all about: a union of values, respecting the rights of everyone, and this is a very important aspect of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to reinforce the echr, eu charter, international covenant on civil and political right and the universal declaration on human rights in terms of guaranteeing the presumption of innocence and right to be present at trial. there are also provisions enshrining the right to remain silent and safeguards in place for when an accused cannot be present in trial. these guarantees have been provided for under irish law for decades, the presumption of innocence being an indispensable part of due process and the right to a fair trial.
in writing. ‒ the presumption of innocence is a fundamental principle of the legal process and one of the most important rights of the defence and according to the directive, member states have to ensure that accused persons are presumed innocent until proven guilty under the law. the proposals in the text are very reasonable. they include banning public authorities from providing information to the media if it would demerit the principle of the presumption of innocence, prohibiting authorities from using force to obtain information from an accused person and placing very strict limitations in cases when a judgement may go ahead in the absence of the accused. all of the these are crucial to ensure that we have a just and fair criminal system and that criminal proceedings are done in the most transparent way.
in writing. ‒ i along with alde voted in favour of the presumption of innocence directive which is one of a package of three directives, the other two being legal aid and specific safeguards for children, that are all aimed at strengthening the rights of individuals in criminal proceedings. i welcome this step forward to ensuring individuals’ rights are respected in criminal proceedings and that there are fairer trials for all eu citizens. of particular importance in this directive is that the principle of ‘innocent until proven guilty’ remains across member states and that the final text agrees is a positive result for eu citizens who will have access to fair trials across the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the commission proposal seeks to guarantee a minimum level of protection for the principle of presumption of innocence in all member states and to enhance accused persons’ right to be present at their trials. the proposal therefore focuses mainly on the principle of presumption of innocence, the burden of proof, the right not to incriminate oneself and not to cooperate, the right to remain silent, the right to be present at one’s trial and the right to a retrial. in general, i welcome the approach adopted at the time and endorse almost all of those amendments; in particular, those seeking to prevent the reversal of the burden of proof to the detriment of suspects or accused persons and to ensure that evidence gathered in breach of the principle of presumption of innocence are inadmissible. the report also tables a number of additional amendments seeking to clarify the scope of the presumption of innocence, in particular as regards public references to guilt before conviction and thereby to ensure that suspects or accused persons enjoy a sufficiently high level of protection throughout the eu.
the uachtaráin, voted against the report by the bhfabhar in the comh maith. but of course a lot of the work was done by a reporter, vicky ford, and she's the one who recommended you here for these laws. this is an important legislative change and i am pleased that products will now be subject to conformity assessment, informing buyers of this, and contact details should be on the product in order to help market surveillance authorities. i support this report and the rapporteur's calls for linguistic obligations for importers, such as the use of the official language of the importing country in marking their contact details on the equipment and the use of language that is easily understandable to consumers for precautionary instructions. i particularly agree with the rapporteur's call for an obligation on manufacturers to ensure that instructions are clear and understandable and to ensure that recorded performances, i.e. to check standards of the protection provided, are all in order. transparency and efficiency are of the utmost importance to ensure maximum protection of eu citizens in the context of personal protective equipment.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which had as its aim the replacement of an existing piece of legislation with a regulation. my reasons for abstaining were that there was little to no consultation with stakeholders on the initial proposals, meaning that the environmental impact, costs and red tape associated with new provisions were not taken into account.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for the regulation on personal protective equipment (ppe) aims at updating the current council directive 89/686/eec and aligning it with the new legislative framework (nlf) on the marketing of products. it is important that guidelines for using personal protective equipment are transparent to avoid misuse, ensuring protection of eu citizens. i support the proposed amendments for technical and linguistic clarifications and the use of the official language of the importer country to be clearly marked on all ppe.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution to update the existing personal protective equipment (ppe) legislation. this revision is in line with the new legislative framework (nlf) which is a package of measures designed to streamline and simplify the regulation of goods across the single market. given that this proposal deals primarily with the modernisation and simplification of an already well-functioning system, this update correctly focuses on some concerns expressed by member states. in particular, it now requires importers and distributors to inform the manufacturer, as well as market surveillance authorities msa, where they believe there is a risk of non-conforming ppe. furthermore, it will require member states to notify manufacturers if a notified body has ceased activity and requires any appeal procedure to be transparent and accessible.
in writing. ‒ i decided to support this report as since 1989, the placing of personal protective equipment on the eu market has been fully harmonised through council directive 89/686/eec). in the intervening 25 years, this directive has enabled a functioning single market. despite this, the existing ppe legislation is in need of updating in line with the new legislative framework (nlf) which is a package of measures designed to streamline and simplify regulations of goods across the single market. in particular, in response to concerns that current regulatory requirements are confusing and duplicative, the regulation clarifies the role of economic operators, reinforces cooperation between actors and introduces common definitions. the common approach under the nlf also clarifies the powers of market surveillance authorities enabling the tracking and returning of unsafe goods placed on the single market. the existing ppe directive provides that member states must allow the marketing of all products compliant with the directive and must not allow the marketing of non-compliant products. given that neither lower nor higher standards are allowed by the existing directive, it is unlikely that there will be significant practical operational implications by replacing it with a regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report that updates existing legislation on personal protective equipment and turns the existing directive into a regulation.
the president, like the final report, has recommended that the rapporteur, catherine stihler, draw up a report on the subject, and that the committee draw up a report. therefore, i was very pleased to vote in favour of the report. so this regulation is very important because it changes the directive that was already there, and it helps us to complete the single market, which of course we have heard about this morning from the dutch presidency and which is now very much in vogue, particularly in relation to gas, because gas is going to be a very important part even as we move to renewables. renewables can be intermittent, so gas is going to be a very important part of our energy mix into the future. for that reason the gas appliances should be to the very highest standards, because some of these boilers, etc. can emit carbon monoxide, which is a deadly killer. but these proposals will help to ensure the highest possible standards and protection for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislation which would regulate how appliances burning gaseous fuels would enter the market. most of the content is technical and contains provisions on labelling, assessments, risks to health and safety of persons and animals and how to deal with references to poisonous substances such as carbon monoxide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report so as to ensure that appliances burning gaseous fuels on the market fulfil the requirements providing for a high level of protection of health and safety for users and for rational use of energy. with the previous directive, there was a lack of clarity with regard to the scope and definitions, which this new regulation aims to improve. this new regulation will also help to improve the functioning of the internal market for gas appliances and help to prevent distortions by some member states not applying essential health and safety requirements or conformity assessment procedures. unfortunately it is not within the scope of this regulation to include mandatory standards for carbon monoxide alarms or to require the fitting of a carbon monoxide alarm wherever a gaseous appliance is installed. this is something i had inquired about with the rapporteur and the legal services. nevertheless, i am happy that there is a recognition of the dangers posed by carbon monoxide in the regulation and that it allows member states to legislate on periodic inspections or installer training when deemed necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report due to the important role the gas sector plays in the eu economy. the gas sector employs 476 000 people and gas appliances cover a wide range of products, from simple portable cookers to boilers for big buildings, the current eu stock of gas appliances is at 470 million and growing with no more than 30 million units being sold annually. i concur with the rapporteur that the change of legal instrument from a directive to a regulation is in line with the general political commitment to strive for better regulation and to simplify the regulatory environment.
the president, like the previous report, has now given us the opportunity to bring the single market back into force. dar of course, vote them and bhfabhar. i was having a debate earlier and i was wondering if i could talk to you about giving you a little bit of advice. because this again is a very important little piece of legislation, perhaps not the most high profile, there may be no publicity out of it for the rapporteur, but nevertheless it helps to make european union citizens safer because the application of harmonised standards and rules in relation to the safe installation of cableways, the marketing of components, subsistence and infrastructure is an important piece of work for the benefit of workers and the general public. i also feel it is a sensible approach to leave out historical cableways from this area. and again, there's a jab made go maith ag an report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals with safety aspects related to cableway installations. although being primarily concerned with harmonising standards throughout the eu, many safety aspects are still left to the control of national member states such as the appointment of competence national authorities to control cableways, analysis procedures by those bodies, market surveillance and penalties for breach of safety standards. the regulation further puts in place a notification system for when a defect is detected in one country, and is assumed not to be confined to the territory of that country. given that the aims are to provide protection for users, operators and workers, i was happy to support the proposals.
in writing. ‒ the commission proposal for this regulation aims at updating existing eu legislation on cableway installations and thereby bringing it also into line with the new legislative framework (nlf) on the marketing of products. there are several thousand cableways in europe today and it is important that citizens feel safe when using one. the new regulation will help ensure up-to-date and stronger design and construction standards for the future of cableway installations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation on cableway installations. the regulation will repeal and replace directive 2000/9/ec of 20 march 2000 relating to cableway installations designed to carry persons. as the diverging transposition in the implementation report of directive 2000/9/ec was identified as a problem, i welcome this change to a regulation from a directive. the change takes into account the need to ensure a uniform implementation throughout the eu. as the regulation foresees total harmonisation, member states are not allowed to impose more stringent or additional requirements in their national legislation, but member states will remain competent to regulate other aspects relating to cable installations such as land-use, regional planning and environmental protection. furthermore, it will avoid unnecessary transposition costs and impose clear and detailed rules which will become applicable in a uniform manner throughout the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it endorses the proposal for a regulation on cableway installations which is an example of union harmonisation legislation. the proposal sets out to harmonise the conditions of placing on the market of subsystems and safety components for cable installations and to ensure the free movement of these products in the eu. all safety components and subsystems will have to be designed and manufactured in compliance with the essential requirements provided for by the regulation. with regard to the cableway installations, the regulation also foresees total harmonisation of the essential requirements to which they must comply.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which updates existing eu legislation on cableways.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this gue/ngl resolution which objected to the inclusion of the kyrgyz republic in the eu’s generalised scheme of tariff preferences. gsp beneficiary countries benefit from tariff preferences under arrangements with the eu and the status is given to developing countries vulnerable due to a lack of diversification and insufficient integration with the international trading market. countries can only benefit from gsp if they have signed up to and ratified core international conventions on human rights and labour rights. although the kyrgyz republic has done this on its face, the committee against torture and international labour organisation have listed it as one of the countries most failing its obligations. there are numerous instances of human rights violations including legislation against the lgbt community, torture and ill treatment by the criminal justice system, deaths in custody and threats against human rights defenders.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution objecting to the decision to grant gsp+ status to kyrgyzstan. kyrgyzstan’s application gives an encouraging sign of the progress the country is making and by engaging in gsp+, we can push for further progress by the kyrgyzstani government. as one of the poorest countries in the region the government faces significant challenges while at the same time trying to introduce reforms and gsp+ status can go towards helping combating this widespread poverty through investment and reform. regarding the draft law on sexual orientation, this of course is a matter of concern but the key point is that it remains a draft at the moment and it would be disproportionate to base a criterion for a serious failure on a law which does not exist. i believe that it will be through the granting of gsp+ that we can better monitor and address the issue and hopefully prevent its adoption as part of gsp+ dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote against this report as the parliament of the kyrgyz republic has ignored the european parliament’s resolution of 15 january 2015 on the country’s homosexual propaganda bill, and moved the bill forward to pass its second reading. this draft legislation violates the important principle that sexual orientation and gender identity are matters falling within the sphere of the individual right to privacy, as guaranteed by international human rights law, according to which equality and non-discrimination are to be protected and freedom of expression is to be guaranteed.
in writing. ‒ this vote was to reject proposals that would have allowed 30% of the energy in baby foods to be derived from sugar. given the high amounts spent by the government every year on conditions such as obesity and diabetes, and the proven difficulties in weaning young infants from sugary foods, it was essential that the existing cap was not allowed to be raised. the who recommends limiting intake of sugars to less than 10% of total energy intake, therefore this was a no-brainer.
in writing. ‒ mr taylor raised an objection to a commission delegated act. this delegated act concerns the regulation of baby food when babies start eating solid food. the text simply stated that food must now be labelled "not suitable for children under 4 months of age". of course, breastfeeding is a priority, as long as the mother can, and i support any measure that allows breastfeeding to continue, but not all mothers can follow the recommendations of the world health organization: exclusive breastfeeding for the first 6 months. so we need drastic regulation of alternative foods, and so on, to protect the health of our children. the existing regulations are already very restrictive and can be improved. the efsa is therefore due to issue two recommendations this year, in particular on the maximum sugar content of these foods. i shall then decide whether to object, pointing out that the balanced nutrition of children depends primarily on the parents. i therefore voted against this objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to a delegated act on the compositional and information requirements for processed cereal-based food and baby food as i believe meps should have an opportunity to re-open negotiations on the sugar content of such products. the current proposal allows baby foods to provide 30% of their energy from sugar, which flies in the face of who recommendations which set the maximum levels at 10%. levels of 30% are outdated and do not take the latest findings into consideration. according to estimates from the who’s childhood obesity surveillance initiative, around one in three children in the eu aged 6-9 years were overweight, or obese, in 2010. information from various different studies suggests that this number has increased steadily over the past 20 to 30 years. childhood obesity is closely linked to an increased intake of carbohydrates and fats. therefore a limit of 10% sugar in baby foods would be a significant step in fighting childhood obesity and, hopefully, today’s positive vote will now allow this to happen.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the european union has an obligation to promote high-quality public health principles, standards and legislation in its relations with non-eu countries and international organisations in the field of public health and a duty to establish an effective health protective framework. the delegated regulation does not contain sufficient measures to protect infants and young children against obesity and the allowed maximum sugar level should be substantially lowered in line with who recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i was very pleased to support the resolution supporting the colombian peace process following the conclusion of negotiations between the colombian government and the farc in 2015. the internal armed conflict has for over 50 years caused untold suffering to its people and given rise to atrocities such as assassinations, enforced disappearances, kidnappings, sexual violence, population displacements and the scourge of anti-personnel mines. the general agreement for the termination of the conflict establishes a five-point agenda covering integral agricultural development policy, political participation, a solution to the problem of illicit drugs and victims reparation and justice, finally clearing the way for the end of the conflict by 23 march 2016. i particularly welcome the resolution’s call for the peace process to be accompanied by a determined effort to combat inequality and poverty, including finding fair solutions for people and communities forced off their lands, and providing colombia’s people with access to decent work and ensuring recognition of their social and labour rights as well as welcoming the establishment of a subcommittee on gender to ensure gender mainstreaming in negotiations and the participation of victims of sexual violence and women’s rights organisations in the peace talks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as putting an end to this internal conflict, which has raged for 50 years, leaving millions of victims, and securing a stable and lasting peace in colombia are a first priority both for that country and the european union and the international community, as demonstrated by the many statements made in support of the peace process by various countries and regional and international bodies, including the european union. it reiterates the readiness to provide all possible assistance to support the implementation of the final peace agreement, and renews its call on european union member states to create a trust fund to accompany the post-conflict phase, in which communities and civil society organisations are invited to participate, and to take due account of the priorities expressed by the victims in terms of truth, justice, reparations and guarantees of non-repetition. the report also stresses how important it is for the peace process to be accompanied by a determined effort to combat inequality and poverty, including by finding fair solutions for people and communities forced off their lands, and providing all of colombia’s people with access to decent work and ensuring recognition of their social and labour rights.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the association agreements/deep and comprehensive free trade agreements with georgia, moldova and ukraine.
madam president, i have listened to the debate, a very mature debate, where most were in favour, some against this saa. obviously being in the epp group and on the committee on international trade, i am very much in favour and i look forward to kosovo developing and in particular to its people enjoying a higher standard of living and greater confidence as this agreement comes into being, creating more trade and more jobs and a higher standard of living. also i would say that i look forward to the day when kosovo will become a full member of the european union. coming as i do from the other side of europe, ireland, a small country off the west coast of europe, that joined in 1973 and has benefited enormously from eu membership ever since, i can say that we would not dream of leaving the european union, whatever our friends from the united kingdom might do. i think the same will probably apply to kosovo and other countries in that region because they have a lot to offer in terms of creating stability for us, a better neighbourhood and of course internal reforms which will be needed as well.
madam president, i thank the commissioner for his opening remarks. many colleagues in the house have mentioned the agriculture sector as being a particularly sensitive area. i would like more elaboration on how that will be handled in terms of these negotiations. clearly we want more trade, that is good for everybody, but we do need to take into account these particular sensitivities. but there is a bigger question. europe is engaged in many different trade negotiations, some have been completed and some are still ongoing. and my question to the commission is: who is watching the overall impact of these agreements that are being negotiated in parallel, particularly their impact on the agriculture sector? because – as colleagues have pointed out – we do have a common agriculture policy. we have a very different farm structure; we want to keep farming in the peripheral regions. so could you address that particular issue about the cumulative impact of different sets of trade negotiations on the specific agricultural sector?
madam president, can i just compliment the work of the petitions committee, not only as a former member but now as a member who deals with the issue of international parental child abduction, and i very much welcome the cooperative spirit with which we work in in this area. it is really important that we do that. a previous speaker mentioned petitions concerning children or difficulties where there are cross-border relationships. i think we’re going to get more and more of these coming to us. we don’t always have a good solution for those who are impacted, but we give – and are charged with giving – some guidance to those who are suffering. they are the most emotional and difficult petitions and queries that we deal with, and i would ask, as we are continuing to operate in this area – so that the work of my office can complement the work that the petitions committee is doing – that we work collectively for the review of the brussels ii regulation. i think that will be crucial for us.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report due to the fact that the saa establishes contractual relations which provide for enhanced political dialogue, closer trade integration and new forms of cooperation. it covers numerous sectors, including the respect for and strengthening of democratic principles and human rights, establishing a framework for cooperation on sectors such as education, energy, environment, justice and home affairs. the saa also includes provisions aiming to promote european standards in areas such as competition, procurement, intellectual property and consumer protection, and it aims to establish a free trade area. the saa is a very important first formal step towards the eu accession process and the european integration path on the republic of kosovo. the european parliament looks forward to a further strengthening of relations between the republic of kosovo and the eu.
in writing. ‒ this was a simple approval vote on members of the committee of inquiry on emissions in the automotive industry, arising out of the volkswagen emissions scandal late last year. three meps from my own political grouping gue/ngl, whose candidacy i supported, will sit on this committee.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i approve of the appointed member of the committee of inquiry on emission measurements in the automotive sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution for this trade agreement as i disagree with the policy the eu has taken in extending its political and economic sphere to these countries without properly considering conflicts in the region, including the ramifications such a deal would have on other neighbouring countries and their relations with one another. on 1 january 2016 and in anticipation of this agreement, russia cut the participation of ukraine to the cis free trade zone.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it welcomes the efforts made by georgia, moldova and ukraine in ensuring that national legislation approximates eu standards based on aa/dcfta commitments. it additionally points out that success in doing this depends on many factors, including a stable political environment, strategic thinking, concrete plans for reforms, and good use of financial and technical international support. funds which are made available must be spent well, and by themselves they are not enough to stabilise the economy, nor can any sustainable success be achieved without the continued commitment of the partners to bringing forward and implementing structural reforms, ensuring a rise in domestic demand, and achieving social cohesion. the association countries have freely chosen to establish a deeper relationship with the eu and that choice must be fully respected and be free from pressure by any third party. the actions taken by russia to undermine or derail the pro-european course taken by the three association countries should be condemned.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the gue/ngl resolution and against the joint motion for resolution on this file. my reasons for voting for the gue/ngl resolution were because of its strong opposition to the creation of an eu military alliance and its absolute rejection of the activation of article 42(7) teu on the mutual defence clause. rejecting both of these aspects is crucial to safeguarding irish neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i chose to abstain on this resolution due to the many contentious issues within the report regarding the promotion of nato and the fact that it calls for a civil military headquarters and calls to establish a strong european defence union, as ireland is a neutral country.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the joint resolution which lays out the eu’s priorities for the un human rights council’s priorities for 2016. my main reasons for abstaining were that the resolution made no specific reference to human rights abusers within the human rights council, it did not take a harsh enough stance on the death penalty and it made no reference at all to the western sahara issue or recent events in turkey. furthermore, the resolution was discriminatory in the protection it was willing to offer to certain religions over others.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution because respect for human rights irrespective of race, origin, religion, class, caste, sex, sexual orientation or colour is an obligation on all states. this resolution reiterates its attachment to the indivisibility of human rights (whether civil, political, economic, social or cultural), which are interrelated and interdependent. the deprivation of any one of these rights has a direct and adverse impact on the others. all states have an obligation to respect the basic rights of their respective populations and a duty to take concrete action to facilitate respect for those rights at national level, and to cooperate at international level with a view to eliminating obstacles to the realisation of human rights in all areas. having respect for, and the promotion and safeguarding of, the universality of human rights is part of the european union’s ethical and legal acquis and one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity. the internal and external coherence in the area of human rights is essential for the credibility of the eu’s human rights policy abroad.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is a straightforward report on the committee on petition’s activities. the report summarises the main issues pointed out by petitions received from citizens during the 2014, as well as remarks and recommendations on the committee’s activities, its regular collaboration with the european ombudsman and its prerogatives dealing with the european citizens initiatives. in particular, i voted in favour of including text highlighting the european citizens’ initiative against ttip last year in the final text, as well as rejecting the investor-state-dispute-settlement (isds) mechanism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it recognised that the right to petition is an important tool for which citizens of the eu may exercise a greater political involvement. it also recognised that there are a number of shortcomings, many of them procedural, which may limit involvement. it was noted that the persistent backlog in the treatment of petitions, stemming from a lack in human resources available within the committee’s secretariat, had the potential to undermine and harm the credibility of the european institutions in the eyes of concerned citizens. the report also notes the highly important role of the commission with regard to the proactive monitoring of petitions which claim breaches in eu legislation. the report calls on the commission to conduct thorough inquiries of admissible cases and to provide accurate and updated answers to petitions in writing. the commission should also strive to uphold its transparency and cooperation in dealing with other eu institutions in order to achieve this. it recommends the standardising of laws to create well-functioning petition committees in national parliaments, which would increase the effectiveness of cooperation between the committee on petitions and the national parliaments.
in writing. ‒ i chose to vote for this report in response to problems relating to major issues such as calls for the implementation of the revised petitions administrative procedure in the ep and ending the practices of politicising the peti committee in time of national elections. the number of petitions received is modest when compared to the eu’s total population, which indicates that the vast majority of eu citizens are not yet aware of the right to petition or of its possible usefulness as a means of drawing the attention of the eu institutions and the member states to matters which affect them and about which they are concerned. even though some eu citizens are aware of the petition process, there is still widespread confusion about the eu’s field of activity, as is shown by the high number of inadmissible petitions received (39.4 %). the proper treatment of petitions throughout the whole process is crucial to ensuring recognition that the right to petition is respected. petitioners tend to be citizens engaged in the improvement, and the future wellbeing, of our societies. the experience of these citizens with regard to how their petitions are treated could determine their future opinion on the european project.
mr draghi, the recently-published report on the banking inquiry in ireland points an accusatory finger directly at the ecb and estimates that over eur 9 billion could have been saved on applying haircuts to the unsecured, unguaranteed bond holders but for the threats and bullying of your predecessor mr trichet. that eur 9 billion is gone, history. but there is an even greater injustice happening to ireland right now under your watch, mr draghi. i am referring to the ongoing destruction of the eur 31 billion promissory note bonds. those bonds were created in 2009 and 2010 to bail out the creditors of two insolvent irish banks, but more significantly to help protect the euro itself. the banks were non-systemic. those banks were eventually liquidated, but the ecb now insists that the entire 31 billion must be taken out of circulation by our central bank. already we have borrowed 6 billion, and our central bank is now going to be forced to burn 25 billion more. please answer this question. i am asking you today directly: will you please work with us to stop this obscenity? do not let this be your legacy to ireland or our legacy to our children. please answer this question. make it a first for me in this parliament that any damn question would be answered!
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– madam president, biodiversity across europe is in crisis and the european commission’s own mid-term review admits it. no significant progress has been made on halting the degradation of our ecosystems and biodiversity loss. pitifully, only one out of the six headline targets has shown any progress. i have listened to commissioner vella tonight and i have not heard him categorically rule out a revision of the nature directives. the nature directives have been shown to have tangible benefits in the protection of wildlife and ecological habitats, and i am extremely pleased that in this report we have clearly outlined that we object to any possible revision of these directives. we know it is the implementation and enforcement that remains the problem – not the legislation itself – so the european parliament tomorrow is due to add its voice to the half-a-million citizens who responded loud and clear to the public consultation to protect these laws. the question is, commissioner vella: are you listening?
madam president, one hundred years ago the irish republic was declared. as a nation, we should be celebrating our centenary and celebrating the brave men and women who fought for irish freedom, but instead, the irish government, whose fine gael members sit across this chamber, would like to see our history erased – not just figuratively, but literally. they want to demolish the site where the leaders of the 1916 easter rising spent their last hours before their execution. they want to demolish a site that the national museum of ireland has declared is the most important historic site in modern irish history. they want to demolish the site that the imperial war museum in london has declared as the most intact city battlefield in the whole of europe. they want to deny the future generations of ireland in europe their historical heritage and instead replace it with a shopping centre, like some sort of crass, shining beacon to their neo-liberal agenda. i want to put it on this parliament’s record that this will not be tolerated. our heritage belongs to everyone, and tomorrow i take the fight to the council of europe.
on behalf of the alde group.– madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur mr pirinski, and indeed the shadow rapporteurs and specifically yana toom, for their full commitment to ensuring that we could set up this european platform that will enhance cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. the fact that membership is mandatory means that all member states must participate, and therefore they must be involved in exchanging information and developing expertise and analysis, and that in itself will contribute to a horizontal understanding of all matters related to undeclared work. however, while participation is mandatory, any recommendations for action that are supported by the platform are voluntary for member states to implement. this approach is much more carrot than stick, and i believe that those member states having participated in the development of tools for sharing information, and for the enforcement of shared practices to tackle undeclared work, are much more likely to implement such action themselves. the platform will not contradict any national legislation and will not propose harmonisation of any laws, but it will provide a strong framework for enhanced cooperation. the extent of undeclared work in the eu is up to 18% of eu gdp, and it is important to remember that undeclared work has negative outcomes both for workers themselves and for society. many of the workers are in a vulnerable position: they often have to accept poor working conditions and there is very often no commitment to health and safety, no social protection, no pension contributions, precarious working conditions, etc., whilst society loses out because of tax and social security forgone and also unfair competition between companies. in our next debate we look at the anti-tax-avoidance package, which recognises the importance of coordinated action. equally, this type of coordinated action under the auspices of the european platform will operate both at national and cross-border level.
mr president, i welcome the tax avoidance package. many multinationals, through aggressive tax planning, exploit loopholes and mismatches in national laws and, because of that, they end up paying derisory levels of tax that have absolutely no connection to the profits they make. the oecd estimates that corporate tax evaded at local level is somewhere between eur 100 and 240 billion annually and at eu level it is somewhere between eur 50 and 70 billion. those are obscene amounts of money forgone and, as you said, commissioner, there can be no social justice or equality while this regime continues. the commission tells us that the oecd’s base erosion and profit shifting (beps) initiative is not sufficient. so the challenge for the eu is to drive this issue as a global leader while at the same time not damaging eu competitiveness or the potential for foreign direct investment. our response must be proportionate and effective. finally, it is not just the council, the commission and parliament that will drive this issue; consumers will play a hugely important role, and that is why i believe public country-by-country reporting would be a very powerful tool.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the technical codification proposed by the commission which will not impact on the substance of the schengen border code, only simplify and clarify the text, making it clearer and more accessible to citizens. on 20 january 2015 the commission adopted a proposal for the technical codification of the schengen border code (i.e. the rules governing movement of persons across schengen borders). the schengen borders code regulation is intended to improve the legislative part of the integrated border management european union policy by setting out the rules on the border control of persons crossing eu external borders and on the temporary reintroduction of border control at internal borders. this regulation applies to any person crossing the external borders of all eu countries, except those of the united kingdom and ireland, and the internal borders of the schengen area (a border-free area comprising 22 eu countries, along with iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland). ireland is not a member of schengen and so we do not fall under the remit of the schengen border code.
in writing. ‒ i support the establishment of a community code for the rules governing movement of persons across borders. the proposal does not involve any change in the substance of these rules; it is a simple codification that would aid interpretation and strengthen the law, and thus i agree with the rapporteur that this regulation of parliament and council on a union code should be implemented.
in writing. ‒ amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals. the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the environment against air pollutants. air pollutants have the potential to travel several thousand kilometres before being deposited. stricter limit values for dust emissions and flexible transitional arrangements will directly benefit those following the amended protocol. a new directive setting updated national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants and annual national emission inventories will deal with emissions of lead, cadmium and mercury. ratifying this amendment aims to provide a higher level of protection of human health and preserve the environment against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on heavy metals because they seek to update the sufficiency and effectiveness of transboundary air pollution. more importantly, the protocol aims to cut emissions from industrial sources (iron and steel industry, non-ferrous metal industry), combustion processes (power generation, road transport), and waste incineration. it sets limit values for emissions from specific major stationary sources and requires the use of best available techniques (bat). parties must also develop and maintain emission inventories for pb, cd and hg, phase out leaded petrol, and reduce hg concentration levels in alkaline batteries, all of which will benefit the health of eu citizens and the environment. the amended protocol sets out, in particular, stricter limit values for dust emissions from certain major stationary sources, as well as transitional arrangements for acceding countries. the amendments are fully consistent with existing eu legislation and will be further transposed via the ongoing revision of the national emission ceilings directive. the ratification of the amendments will contribute to a higher level of protection of human health and the environment from transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i support the amendments proposed for the 1998 protocol. particularly important amendments include the more flexible arrangements to be allowed for parties that adopt the amended protocol before 2020, which will encourage a swifter widespread implementation of it. stricter restrictions on dust emissions from particular dominant stationary sources would also be an important step in preventing air pollution across the borders. transboundary air pollution significantly affects countries across europe – in recent years ireland has fallen below the world health organisation guidelines on air pollution, with airflow coming from the sahara desert to ireland and polluting our air with dust. i agree with the rapporteur that the proposed amendments, if ratified, would be a triumph for each eu country’s environmental protection and public health levels.
in writing. ‒ the convention on long-range transboundary air pollution aims to protect the environment against air pollutants. air pollutants have the potential to travel several thousand kilometres before being deposited. the amended protocol updates implementation requirements for several substances, including pcdd/pcdf emissions from several sources. pcbs will be added to the list of substances affected by the total annual emission restrictions. flexible timeframes will be provided for parties with an economy in transition regarding the application of emission limit values and for the choice of the reference year for the total annual emissions. a new directive setting updated national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants and annual national emission inventories will deal with emissions of pops, including pahs, pcdd/pcdf, hcb and pcbs. ratifying this amendment aims to provide a higher level of protection of human health and preserve the environment against transboundary air pollution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the of the amendments to the 1998 protocol to the 1979 convention on long-range transboundary air pollution on persistent organic pollutants because they seek to update the list of persistent organic pollutants covered by the protocol, to make the protocol more adaptable to future developments on the best available techniques and to facilitate accession to the amended protocol by parties with an economy in transition. in addition to that, the amendments aim to control, reduce or eliminate discharges, emissions and losses of persistent organic pollutants and require parties, of which the eu is one, to eliminate the production and use of the substances which are considered a persistent organic pollutant, to reduce the use of certain pollutants which are considered carcinogenic from the level of the emission in 1990, update the implementation requirements applicable to emissions from certain waste incinerators all of which benefit european citizens and the environment. the amendments to the protocol are already largely covered by eu legislation, and will be further transposed via a new directive setting updated national emission ceilings for certain atmospheric pollutants. in view of this, i believe the amendments should be supported.
in writing. ‒ a cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine would reinforce judicial cooperation in the combat against serious crime and corruption. the agreement would see operational cooperation between eurojust and ukraine, such as the temporary transfer of a ukrainian liaison officer to eurojust. the exchange of information would also be encouraged. this cooperation mechanism would aid in the combat against serious crime whilst also enhancing judicial coordination on organised crime and terrorism.
in writing. ‒ the passing of the draft agreement between eurojust and ukraine would lead to increased judicial cooperation in combatting organised crime and terrorism. the benefits of such an agreement are many as it enhances european judicial collaboration and fulfils the operational need to fight transnational crime as mentioned by rapporteur jiří maštálka. given that the cooperation would only extend as far as the secondment of a liaison officer by ukraine to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data, and, given that the council will be required to consult parliament when adopting implementing measures pursuant to article 39(1) of the pre-lisbon treaty on european union and in accordance with article 9 of protocol 36, i have decided to vote in favour of the draft implementing decision approving the conclusion by eurojust of the agreement on cooperation between eurojust and ukraine.
in writing. ‒ i find the proposed cooperation agreement between eurojust and ukraine to be most important if we are to effectively set an example in fighting serious crime, particularly organised crime and terrorism. the agreement would also act as a catalyst for enhancement of judicial cooperation in the area of serious crime. i recognise how important such progress is for the safety of european citizens and states, and thus i support this report and its approval of a cooperation agreement.
in writing. ‒ a cooperation agreement between eurojust and montenegro would reinforce judicial cooperation in the combat against serious crime and corruption, with a particular emphasis on organised crime and terrorism. the agreement would see operational cooperation between eurojust and montenegro, such as the temporary transfer of a liaison prosecutor by montenegro to eurojust. it would also encourage the exchange of information including personal data. article 26a(2) of the council decision of 28 february 2002 provides that it is for the council to approve the agreements concluded by eurojust with third countries. the council is required to consult parliament when adopting implementing measures. this cooperation mechanism is crucial to strengthen the combat against transnational crime whilst also enhancing judicial coordination in europe.
in writing. ‒ the passing of the draft agreement between eurojust and montenegro would lead to increased judicial cooperation in combating organised crime and terrorism. this argument should enhance european judicial collaboration. given that the cooperation would only extend as far as the secondment of a liaison officer by montenegro to eurojust and the exchange of information, including personal data, and given that the council will be required to consult parliament when adopting implementing measures pursuant to article 39(1) of the pre-lisbon treaty on european union and in accordance with article 9 of protocol 36, i have decided to vote in favour of this draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ mr iwaszkiewicz is accused of an offence under article 92a of the polish code of administrative offences in conjunction with article 20(1) of the polish road traffic act of 20 june 1997. this case falls under article 9 of protocol (no 7) on the privileges and immunities of the european union. this provides that members, in the territory of their own state, are protected with the same immunities accorded to members of the parliament of that state. it is for the european parliament to decide whether criminal proceedings against mr iwaszkiewicz are authorised. immunity will generally be waived if the offence is within the remit of article 9 of protocol no 7, once there is no fumus persecutionis. it is clear that the facts of this case and the prosecution do not interfere with the position of mr iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament thus there is no fumus persecutionis. pursuant to rule 9(3) of the rules of procedure the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz should be waived.
in writing. ‒ mr iwaszkiewicz is accused of an offence under article 92a of the polish code of administrative offences in conjunction with article 20(1) of the polish road traffic act of 20 june 1997. this case falls under article 9 of protocol (no 7) on the privileges and immunities of the european union. this provides that members, in the territory of their own state, are protected with the same immunities accorded to members of the parliament of that state. it is for the european parliament to decide whether criminal proceedings against mr iwaszkiewicz are authorised. immunity will generally be waived if the offence is within the remit of article 9 of protocol no 7, once there is no fumus persecutionis. it is clear that the facts of this case and the prosecution do not interfere with the position of mr iwaszkiewicz as a member of the european parliament, thus there is no fumus persecutionis. pursuant to rule 9(3) of the rules of procedure the parliamentary immunity of mr robert jarosław iwaszkiewicz should be waived.
in writing. ‒ qatar, a non-member state, accuses mr philippot of defaming the country during both radio and television broadcasts. article 8 of protocol no 7 on the on the privileges and immunities provides that legal proceedings against members of the european parliament for expressing their opinion in the performance of their duties is not permitted. article 26 of the french constitution also stipulates laws to the same effect. consequently, this absolute immunity for members of the european parliament provides that there is a link between the expression of opinions and parliamentary duties. accordingly the public expression of opinions on foreign policy of both the european union or non-member states is within the scope of members’ official duties. there is no need to consider the matter of fumus persecutionis. as a result, the immunity of florian philippot should not be waived.
mr president, i voted for this report because i believe that cooperation between member states, in relation to sharing information and best practice, is vital. we can develop tools which will allow us to share this information and to enforce shared practices; we can develop databases and establish rapid reaction exchange. i think all of these actions can contribute significantly to tackling undeclared work, both at national level and cross-border. it is important because member states themselves lose revenue; but equally, and crucially, it is very important for workers themselves. many workers find themselves without social security contributions, without any kind of protection, and they are open to exploitation. the truth is, the more marginalised the worker, the more likely they are to be exploited. i did not support amendment 63, which asked for a member state opt-out, because it is very clear that participation is mandatory but that any recommendations for action are purely voluntary. finally, i did not support the amendment which asked that members would not be reimbursed for their travel; they give their time free, their work is free, but it would be unreasonable to suggest that their airfares would not be paid.
i was invited to a debate this morning but i was unable to speak in august. therefore, i would like to take this opportunity to give a few brief remarks. i was amazed this morning to see the extent of the black economy or undeclared work as we call it here right across europe, varying from 1% to 30% in different member states. we obviously have a major problem and, while my good friend daniel hannan referred to people being driven into the black economy in the first place, that is only part of the problem or a small part of it maybe because the emphasis has to be particularly on employers exploiting workers, as my colleague marian harkin said. i think there is a need for an exchange of best practice and incentives for people to pay their taxes and to declare their work.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and the council on establishing a european platform to enhance cooperation in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work, european citizens, most often migrants, frequently find themselves trapped in situations of undeclared work. they are particularly vulnerable to the effects of unemployment, without access to any form of social protection. many of these employees may have worked under the pretext of legal employment only to find that they are not entitled to the benefits generally available to citizens in such situations. the consequences of undeclared work can lead to financial hardship and in some cases, homelessness. the european platform for prevention and deterrence of undeclared work is necessary to aid member states in understanding and reducing practices which contribute to homelessness. the platform will help to reduce the exploitation of such workers. it also enables national and local authorities to provide information to workers who have been negatively affected by such practices. easily accessible information and advice can help endangered families avoid homelessness.
mr president, i am delighted today that the european parliament urged member states not to authorise any new fracking operations in the eu. this call was made on the basis of the precautionary principle and also on the gaps that are identified in eu legislation. we said that we need to take account of the risks and of the negative climate and environmental and biodiversity impacts involved in hydraulic fracturing. fifty-five percent of the members of parliament support that view. and indeed, i have to say i was a little bit surprised to find myself somewhat in conflict with my colleagues in sligo county council, which is my own local authority, because yesterday they voted not to ban fracking in their draft development plan, unlike my colleagues in leitrim county council. i know it is just a draft plan and perhaps it can be changed. maybe today’s vote in the european parliament might have some influence on that outcome.
mr president, i commend the rapporteur for highlighting that there is an increasing depletion of biodiversity, and this needs to be tackled as a matter of urgency, especially if we are to reach the 2020 targets and also, of course, as a result of the successful cop21 in paris. it goes without saying that the better our environment is, the better it is for human beings; nevertheless this depletion takes place, some of it unwittingly, unfortunately more of it done perhaps even purposely. so there is a need to bring the public on board to help them to see what can be done and to see the benefits. i know in my own country that wildlife and nature are very important for attracting tourists, so there is an economic benefit. this is very important. i just want to finish by complimenting the estonian president on his wonderful address here today. normally such addresses are rather general. his was very specific and therefore very relevant to us.
in writing. ‒ we need stronger, not weaker, nature directives and these should be better implemented, not revised. this is especially important as the european commission are undertaking a ‘fitness test’ of the birds and habitats directive. the assumption being that these directives are too restrictive. the european parliament’s mid-term review of the eu biodiversity strategy stated that the 2020 biodiversity targets will not be achieved without additional efforts, while existing eu nature directives should be better implemented instead of being revised; and that missing its biodiversity goals would cost the eu an estimated 50 billion a year. food production and tourism are two major contributors to ireland’s economy, and these are linked to nature and our clean green image. it would be unthinkable that we do not protect the very thing that makes our country so attractive.
member of the commission.– madam president, first i would like to say very openly that i am a medical doctor. i practised as a medical doctor for 27 years, and i know very well what cancer and other diseases mean. i am still a medical doctor today. i say to those who mentioned that i have an interest in the debate on these industries: be open about it. that would be very nice, because i am very honest and i like honest debates and fair games. some members said that i represent the industry; i am sorry, but that is a very unfair argument. i met several times with endocrinologists, toxicologists and biochemists. a few weeks ago i debated together with our senior advisers and organised meetings between different groups of scientists. i would like to invite you to debate very openly because we must speak about scientific evidence and about real arguments. it is very important for all of us, because i have never agreed to be on the side of industry. my first responsibility is to public health. i am very proud that i have very many allies here. i am very happy that we are maybe ready to fight against alcohol, tobacco, sugar and salt, because they are extremely damaging, especially tobacco. when we really speak about people’s health i will be very happy to have so many allies here in this house. speaking of this difficult issue, as you will remember, last year i said that the impact assessment was not about economic and social aspects. it is about scientific criteria and how to define potency, exposure, qualification and so on. i am not a biochemical scientist, and this is not such an easy debate. last year we organised three round tables and organised conferences together and held debates. if you think i am on the side of the industry, please show me how this can be. i am very honest. my diploma is as a medical doctor. i am responsible and i am ready to work. in our reduced assessment time we started with methodology and debated with gfc. there are 600 chemical materials to be evaluated on this. i cannot see how we could deal with it any quicker. please show me. please help me. i am also green like you, but i will not play a game i consider to be dishonest. i am ready to say very clearly that we are ready to move forward as soon as possible and to do our job. it would be nice to have a result by the end of 2016 maybe. today we decided to give ourselves until the summer to decide. please do better. i wish to be very open and very transparent, but i ask you also to work together and to be transparent in all questions. speaking of all questions related to health, i will be very happy to speak about electronic cigarettes and tobacco and about all the bad things we currently face. these are very difficult conditions for the european union to speak about public health issues and how the cost of public health could be reduced in the european union. the figures are terrible. i am ready to do my job but, believe me, first of all we need manageable regulatory criteria. i do not think this is so easy because these issues are very complex. but when i hear such populist arguments, i am sorry but i must respond that i am very open and transparent. i will never be in a lobby on any given side. but it is a very difficult job. we all must debate very seriously and deeply about how to assess, how to regulate, how to understand and how to move forward. i am doing my job. i have been in office only for one year and four months. i have lost one year and four months. i would like to know how to be more effective, but we must all be effective together. we are ready to do our job and to move forward as much as possible to come up with some criteria by the summer and to set a very good example for the wider world, because we are pioneers. thank you dear colleagues, we are ready to do our job based on scientific evidence and present criteria, perhaps by the summer if possible.
in writing.– since the december court ruling, we have been awaiting a signal from the commission in recognition of its failure to put a system in place to protect our citizens’ health by identifying and banning or limiting, to the fullest extent possible, substances that disturb our endocrine systems. chemicals found in pesticides and everyday items such as food containers, cosmetics or items of clothing can contain endocrine disrupting components that harm human health and the environment. because these are hazardous at very low levels of exposure, we cannot simply draw safe levels of exposure, as we do with other kinds of chemicals. the commission had a proposal ready almost three years ago, based on independent expert input, which would have seen light within the deadlines we mandated. instead, the chemical lobby’s version about costs and risks to crop yields caught the then secretary-general catherine day, based on impact assessments from the uk and teagasc, the irish agriculture and food development authority. her decisions have brought action to a screeching bureaucratic halt, and it is time for president junker to act upon the court’s decisions and remedy this hazardous legacy of ms day’s.
mr juncker, i would appreciate it if you would listen to my question. it is now generally accepted that when the euro was launched, it lacked even the most basic structures to deal with a crisis situation. ireland was one that was hit with a crisis situation. on monday, ecb president mario draghi was in this chamber. i pointed out that the report of the banking inquiry in ireland stated that over eur 9 billion could have been saved but for the threats and bullying of his predecessor, mr trichet. the eur 9 billion is gone, but there is an even greater injustice happening in ireland just now. in 2009 and 2010, in the absence of any official structures to deal with troubled banks, the ecb, the central bank of ireland and the then irish government colluded to create eur 31 billion to bail out the failed creditors of two insolvent european banks. this was done not to save the banks – they were non-systemic – but to protect the euro itself – to protect the entire eurozone banking system. it worked, but now the ecb insists that the entire eur 31 billion must be taken out of circulation by our central bank. already we borrowed and destroyed eur 6 billion; our central bank still holds eur 25 billion awaiting the same fate. on monday in this chamber, i asked mr draghi if he would work with us, the irish meps, to help end this obscenity. i got no reply, mr juncker. today i ask you: will you work with us to help end this obscenity? you talk about what is important… (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. ‒ the agreement introduces a preferential trade regime – the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). the european union is moldova’s largest trading partner, while imports from moldova increased by 20% following the entry into force of the dcfta. the agreement includes a bilateral safeguard clause in articles 165 to 169. this clause protects the union’s industry against an excess of imported goods which could cause ‘serious injury’ to industry. this may result in the suspension of a further reduction in the rate of customs duty on the concerned product. article 148 of the agreement allows for an ‘anti-circumvention mechanism’. this enables the reintroduction of the ‘most-favoured-nation’ customs duty rate when imports from moldova are in excess of a certain threshold without justification of their origin. this clause is crucial to avoid the union importing non-moldovan products via moldova. safeguard measures and anti-circumvention mechanism cannot be applied in unison to the same product.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it would be good for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i support this report and the two amendments adopted in the inta committee, which aim to bring the wording of the regulation into line with the wording of the eu-moldova association agreement. i believe that the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary to enforce the obligations of moldova stemming from the agreement in order to protect eu producers. this instrument ensures that preferences can be temporarily suspended in a case where their application would result in an unexpected and significant increase of imports causing economic damage to eu domestic industry. i believe that this implementing regulation is required to put the necessary instrument in place in the eu’s internal legislation in order to apply the bilateral safeguard clause and the anti-circumvention mechanism present in the moldova association agreement in order to ensure the protection of eu producers.
in writing. ‒ the agreement introduces an ambitious preferential trade regime between both parties, known as the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta). currently the eu is georgia’s main trading partner. trade with georgia amounts for 0.1% of the eu’s total trade. article 27 of the agreement allows for an ‘anti-circumvention mechanism’. this enables the reintroduction of the ‘most-favoured-nation’ customs duty rate when imports from georgia are in excess of a certain threshold without justification of their origin. this clause is crucial to avoid the union importing non-georgian products via georgia. the measure must be used to stop countries with bilateral free-trade agreements with georgia, like turkey and europmed countries using the agreement to avoid ‘rules of origin’ requirement. this clause also works to protect georgian producers from unprecedented competition from non-georgian producers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this anti-circumvention mechanism between the eu and georgia. this allows for the possibility of reintroducing the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. the reason this mechanism is important as it will help to avoid imports into the union of non-georgian products via georgia using the advantages of the agreement provisions and in particular to avoid that countries with bilateral free trade agreements with georgia, for example turkey and europmed countries, use the agreement with the union to circumvent ‘rules of origin’ requirements. this will benefit european consumers while it will also serve as a mechanism to protect georgian producers from this potential misuse and from unprecedented competition from non-georgian producers.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which concerns the incorporation into european union law of the anti-circumvention mechanism foreseen in the eu-georgia association agreement. i agree with the rapporteur that the adoption of the proposed regulation is necessary to enforce the obligations of georgia stemming from the anti-circumvention provisions of the agreement in order to protect eu producers if necessary. the eu-georgia association agreement includes a so-called anti-circumvention mechanism, which provides for the possibility of reintroducing the ‘most favoured nation’ customs duty rate when imports of certain agricultural goods from georgia exceed a given threshold without due justification of their exact origin. therefore, i believe a regulation is required to put in place the necessary instrument in the eu’s internal legislation to be able to apply the anti-circumvention mechanism and ensure the protection of the eu’s producers.
in writing. ‒ numerous petitions from eu citizens with print disabilities have been received, calling for blind people to have access to books and other print products. the world health organisation estimates that in 2010 there were a total of 26 350 000 european citizens suffering from visual impairments. in contrast only 5% of all books published in developed countries and fewer than 1% of those in developing countries are made in accessible formats. both the eu and its member states are parties to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the un crpd committee encourages the european union to ratify and implement the marrakesh treaty without delay. article 24 and 30 of the un crpd recall the rights of persons with disabilities to education on the basis of equal opportunity. despite seven eu member states attempting to impede the process of ratification the council and the member states should ratify the treaty as soon as possible. ratification should be possible without the revision of the eu legal framework of a decision of the court of justice of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it benefits people with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ with regard to the petitions received from eu citizens on behalf of people with disabilities and given the fact that the eu and its member states are parties to the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, the rights of persons with disabilities should be emphasised, especially in relation to the right to education, to be free from discrimination, and their rights to intellectual property. the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works for persons who are blind, visually impaired, or otherwise print disabled should be ratified by all member states of the eu. the ratification process for the marrakesh treaty should be accelerated and should be done without revision of eu law or the decision of the cjeu. it is past time to find a political solution for those who are blind or visually impaired. like the rest of us they have the right to accessible literature.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this objection as individual gmos and the gmo combinations in question have been authorised by the commission and deemed safe for human consumption by the european food safety agency (efsa). this objection is an attempt to change the system of authorisation by those who are opposed to gm. member states can decide whether to cultivate gm crops or not. there is no commercial cultivation of gmo products in ireland, nor is there any expected in the short to mid-term given the lack of relevant gmo products on the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection as i feel the technology is being used to help multinationals dominate the food market.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this objection as individual gmos and the gmo combinations in question have been authorised by the commission and deemed safe for human consumption by the european food safety agency (efsa). this objection is an attempt to change the system of authorisation by those who are opposed to gm. member states can decide whether to cultivate gm crops or not. there is no commercial cultivation of gmo products in ireland, nor is there any expected in the short to mid-term given the lack of relevant gmo products on the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection as i feel the technology is being used to help multinationals dominate the food market.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this objection as individual gmos and the gmo combinations in question have been authorised by the commission and deemed safe for human consumption by the european food safety agency (efsa). this objection is an attempt to change the system of authorisation by those who are opposed to gm. member states can decide whether to cultivate gm crops or not. there is no commercial cultivation of gmo products in ireland, nor is there any expected in the short to mid-term given the lack of relevant gmo products on the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection as i feel the technology is being used to help multinationals dominate the food market.
the uachtaráin, like my colleague in fine gael and my epp group, voted against this report. i am sorry that the commission has done this. we are happy with the many laws that have been put in place to address these laws and their consequences. when we read the road map drawn up by the commission, we can get better results. in that commission proposal published last week, a framework on market surveillance for motor vehicles was outlined. the proposal aimed to tighten the car authorisation process in member states and to create a more independent procedure. this proposal will also allow member states and the commission to take action against the technical services that are underpinning, or too lax in applying, approval requirements.
in writing. ‒ i find it incredible that, despite the worldwide uproar after the ‘dieselgate’ scandal brought auto industry cheating on emissions to light, the member states governments further weakened these overdue standards from the commission, and now a narrow majority of my colleagues have waived them through. we had known, even before car-manufacturer cheating was revealed, that emissions standards in driving conditions were lacking, but i had hoped we would not let this powerful industry dictate the stringency and the pace of these standards in the present context. the legal limits were set by parliament and the council of member states in law, yet these technical measures allow for error margins of up to twice as much, to be tightened over the years. these are not measures to implement the law, but rather to flout it. nitrogen oxide alone claims the life of almost 100 000 citizens in europe a year. we are sending a disturbing signal by allowing corporate giants to avoid the consequences of their actions for as long as possible, with their bottom lines running over health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ the ppe supported the commission and the decision taken by the technical committee for motor vehicles and rejected the objection tabled. it is necessary to examine this implementing act in light of the overall steps taken by the commission to reduce nox emission and to improve air quality and protect the environment. last week the commission published its proposal establishing a framework on market surveillance for motor vehicles. this proposal aims to tighten the car authorisation process in member states and will create a more independent procedure. this proposal will also allow member states and the commission to take action against the technical services that are underperforming or too lax in applying approval requirements. the dess report on the reduction of pollutant emissions from road vehicles is currently being negotiated in trilogues. this proposal focuses on areas where market and regulatory failures hinder efforts to address the overarching challenges of improving the eu’s air quality and addressing the better regulation agenda. one political issue in this trilogue is whether parliament should be involved through delegated acts in setting the limits for emissions. the council feels this should only be done through implementing acts.
in writing. ‒ new road tests measuring real emissions are urgently needed and the import here is real. under the present proposal which was agreed behind closed doors by the commission and member states there will be a dilution of agreed eu emission norms. in fact we could end up awarding manufacturers who did not comply in the first place. therefore, i voted in favour of this objection. we need better outcomes for our citizens.
the president, the vice-president and the president of the commission shall be elected by the assembly in accordance with the procedure laid down in article 5 of the treaty on european union. is more an morramh is sin agus dá bhrí sin ta moladh more tuillte ag an rapóirtéir, my neighbour here, viviane reding, as an dea-jab a rinne sí. i'm going to go and find out what the national rules are, and i'm going to join them. we can now push towards liberalising trade and services between parties and, furthermore, look to eventually making the agreement part of the world trade organisation rule book. that would be good. as the world's largest importer and exporter of services, the eu can benefit immeasurably from supporting and building a solid regulatory foundation from international trade in services. it is therefore clear that the eu will continue to work towards achieving its objectives in the future.
in writing. ‒ the interests of our citizens and consumers, especially the most vulnerable, must be brought to negotiating table. we cannot allow public services to be further exposed to trade and competition rules and push the limits of the markets because international players are missing out on profits. health, education or social security are not just intangible commodities. their provision is essential for the fulfilment of our people’s fundamental rights as citizens and social cohesion. this cannot become a backdoor for social dumping either. services provided in europe must be performed by workers who enjoy the standards of protection afforded by european law. i would have liked to see a new council mandate that constrains the freedom of the commission trade teams. but parliament made it clear that we cannot just give free reign to the commission’s free market midas touch.
in writing. ‒ 23 members of the world trade organisation (including the eu) are currently negotiating the trade in services agreement. the services sector accounts for the world’s largest employer, and produces 70% of global gross domestic product. the agreement aspires to open up markets and improve rules in areas such as financial services, maritime transport, telecoms and licensing. the eu is the world’s largest exporter of services, therefore opening the market for services will encourage growth and create jobs. consumer rights, along with social and environmental standards should not be seen as trade barriers but non-negotiable building blocks of the europe 2020 strategy for growth. the tisa has the potential to address fundamental barriers to trade in services across the globe. the agreement can improve issues such as limited movement of data across borders, unfair competition from state-owned enterprises and lack of transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution because i believe it is bad for irish citizens.
madam president, last but, hopefully, not least. equality between men and women is a core value of the european union and, while the member states, including ireland, have taken important steps to promote equality between women and men, there has been a slowdown in political action and reform at eu level over the last decade. in ireland, despite some progress in this area, today’s statistical overview underlines considerable differences in the sectors in which men and women participate and the under-representation of women at senior levels – even in sectors which employ significantly higher numbers of women. this is not good enough. therefore i welcome this new strategy, which calls on the member states to take further steps to address equality issues and ensure equal opportunity in the fields of employment, health and education, and in both the public and private sectors. finally, we are calling an election in ireland right now; thankfully, 30% of the candidates from the political parties have to be females: a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ the current strategy for equality amongst women and men ended in 2015. on 9 june 2015 the parliament made a resolution urging the commission to present a new strategy for gender equality and women’s rights within the eu. gender equality is a core value of the member states and is crucial to achieving the overall aims of employment, growth and social inclusion. the employment rate in the member states is still higher for men (70.1%) than among women (59.6%). the commission’s previous strategy for equality 2010-2015 did not adequately advance equality at european and international level. the post-2015 strategy is necessary to deliver new momentum and concrete action to further women’s rights and achieve gender equality. while useful, the staff working document since produced by the commission for gender equality policy post-2015 does not have interinstitutional value. member states must mobilise themselves to address equality issues and take action against gender-related violence. equal opportunities in employment, education and health should be made a priority in member states. member states are encouraged to take responsibility in transposing, implementing and evaluating existing legislation and policy tools for equal opportunities at national level. the commission should adopt an official strategy on gender equality without delay.
in writing. ‒ given that gender equality is a core value of the eu and considering the strides the european union has taken on the matter, the commission’s strategy for gender equality in 2015 was not comprehensive enough to affect justice in gender equality on a european level. the commission is bound by article 2 of the treaty of the european union and by the charter of fundamental rights to act in favour of gender equality. the commission must now adopt a new strategy for gender equality and women’s rights 2016-2020 which is in line with the international gender equality agenda and deals with issues such as violence against women, health, education, working time, etc. the commission should also cooperate with the parliament and the council in order to establish an eu summit on gender equality and women’s rights which would identify progress and renew commitments to gender equality and women’s rights within the eu.
the president, having been invited to speak on this important subject, like other members, would first like to thank the president for the work done in bahrain and for the cooperation between the union and bahrain in trade with other countries. but we don't have the time to look at things that are wrong, especially when things are similar in the background to the laws that were passed in 2011. they are not without right and they are against international conventions. therefore, it is necessary to end the current laws, especially those related to the mohammed ramadan and the subsequent successful implementation of the decision. but at the end of the day, we should have a working group set up between the united nations and bahrain to talk about these issues and human rights issues.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i reject the neoliberal economic reforms that are promoted.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution regarding the commission’s 2015 report on accession negotiations with serbia and its progress towards european integration. the progress report on serbia focuses on the rule of law, democracy, human rights, respect for minorities, regional cooperation and energy, the environment and transport. while serbia has made a lot of ambitious reforms and opened chapters on financial control and normalisation of relations between serbia and kosovo, which in particular is an important condition for serbia’s accession to the eu, there are areas which must still be improved. although steps have been taken to form an independent judiciary, political interference remains high. the issue of corruption and organised crime also remains worrying. progress has been made with a whistleblower protection law but corruption, including at the highest levels, must be pursued and an action plan for an anti-corruption strategy fully implemented. hopefully these issues will be addressed in the submitted action plan for a chapter on judiciary and fundamental rights. finally, regarding freedom of expression and the media, no progress has been made on this democratic cornerstone. continuous political pressure undermines media independence, with journalists threatened and intimidated. this is a crucial outstanding issue and must be rectified for serbia to progress.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as i disagree with the approach.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the 2015 report on kosovo. 23 out of 28 eu member states, including my own, recognise kosovo’s independence. with the signing of the eu-kosovo stabilisation and association agreement at the end of last year we have paved the way for the integration of kosovo into the eu. the saa will allow the eu to work with kosovo in a wide variety of areas, including closer trade integration as well as strengthening relations with neighbouring countries. kosovo must now implement the reforms necessary to fulfil its saa obligations. freedom of expression in the media, corruption and organised crime, the efficiency and independence of the judicial system, social and economic structural reforms and gender equality and gender mainstreaming are just some of the areas which the kosovar must now implement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted for the resolution on the situation in libya. stabilising libya is crucially important not just for its people but in the wider context of the refugee/migrant crisis. with the dispute between the house of representatives and the new general national congress continuing the atmosphere of political instability, daesh have taken advantage of this power vacuum. libya has become home to the largest daesh forces outside of the middle east, which poses a significant threat to european security. while expanding its territory daesh has launched a local campaign of terror – with beheadings, shootings and bombings. the human rights situation has deteriorated, with libya a transit ground for human and weapons trafficking. it is essential that stability is brought to libya and the wider region to stem the flow of desperate refugees and migrants risking their lives with smugglers and that we unite to fight daesh. regrettably the un-backed unity government proposal was rejected by the hor. however, they have signed the libyan political agreement, the key aim of which is to establish a consensual government. the eu has made available a eur 100 million package and is ready to offer immediate support to the new libyan government of national accord once formed.
mr president, i was very happy to support the call for special attention to be paid to eu islands, in particular the call for special tax arrangements, the need to tackle depopulation and the call for better air services. in this context i would like to take the opportunity to raise the issue of air access to three islands off the west coast of ireland: inis mór, inis oírr and inis meáin. up to now, access has been by a fixed-wing aircraft, and the islanders are very satisfied with the current arrangements. however, in recent times an attempt has been made to replace fixed-wing aircraft with helicopter access, and the islanders are most dissatisfied with this proposal. today, here, i just want to clarify that, as far as the eu regulation, under which the public service obligation (pso) operates, is concerned, the term used is ‘air carrier’, which is defined as an undertaking with a valid operating licence or equivalent. so the decision on the matter, whether fixed-wing or helicopter, lies with the national authorities, and the needs and wishes of the islanders should be complied with. today we call for better air services. the people of inis mór, inis oírr and inis meáin deserve better air services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the role of local and regional authorities in the european structural and investment funds. with a budget of eur 454 billion for 2014-20, the european structural and investment funds (esifs) are the european union’s main investment policy tool. eu cohesion policy promotes a bottom-up approach and i was pleased to see that in this resolution the importance of the community-led local development initiative, in which local authorities are partners, was highlighted. i believe it is crucial that a genuine bottom-up approach where local actors have real decision making powers is used in order to respond directly to local needs and challenges in a more focused and appropriate way. the new iti and clld tools should enable local stakeholders to combine funding streams and plan well-targeted local initiatives. i also support the resolution’s call for the commission to ensure that support is provided for capacity building for local and regional authorities and their administrations and institutions, so that they are in a position to play a meaningful role in cohesion policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it is positive for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this resolution on the systematic mass murder of religious minorities by so-called ‘isis/daesh’. under international law each individual has the right to live according to his or her conscience and to freely hold and change religious and non-religious beliefs. religious and ethnic minorities, such as the christian and yazidi communities, among others, have been deliberately targeted by daesh and are being slaughtered, beaten, abducted and tortured. also hugely worrying is the targeted enslavement of the women and girls of these communities, who are subjected to horrific sexual violence and forcibly trafficked, married and converted. the international legal definition of genocide, in accordance with the 1948 un convention, has undoubtedly been fulfilled and i support the call for action to be taken for it to be recognised as genocide by the un security council and for the council to support a referral to the icc in order to investigate violations committed in iraq and syria by daesh against religious and ethnic minorities. it is also worth noting that this ongoing persecution of religious and ethnic groups in the middle east is a contributing factor to the current refugee crisis.
member of the commission.– madam president, it has been a very interesting debate and i would like to thank all members for their contributions. once again on behalf of the commission i would like to thank ms renate sommer for raising the issue of the possible introduction of compatible systems for registration of dogs and cats to be accessible across the member states. although it has been a long road leading to the recently-agreed regulation on transmissible animal diseases, i am certain this contains all the elements to further develop the delegated and implementing acts necessary to bring this legislation to life, and this includes the topic of registration of dogs and cats. however, it is important first to verify whether the development of such delegated acts would bring eu added value with regard to action by the member states, and in particular to weigh the administrative burden on the member states against the anticipated benefits of any envisaged measures. anyhow i would like to inform you that the commission intends to start the preparatory work for the adoption of these possible delegated acts, including expert consultations, when the proposed regulation on transmissible animal diseases is formally adopted by the co-legislators, most probably in the coming weeks. you know very well that this is not directly my portfolio, but i was very moved by the stories i heard here and you can be sure that i will ask commissioner andriukaitis who is in charge of this file and i will pass on all your words. i would just like to say that i am very much aware of the intense debate in the country i know best about the treatment of animals, including animals without owners. it is a problem and it is the responsibility of each member state. unfortunately, i think that under the treaties there are not many things that the commission can do regarding that, but anyhow i can assure you that the commission is very much aware of the necessity of the controls. as i said at the beginning, the subject was very clear about the registration of pet animals across member states, and i am sure that commissioner andriukaitis will come up with further details on how this could be done.
mr president, i need to make a personal statement. at the wednesday sitting of the strasbourg part-session, i asked mr juncker – as it happened to be at the time – a question in relation to the bank debt in ireland. i was hoping that i was speaking in an environment where i would get the protection of the chair, but far from it. when my office looked at the video after the speech, we discovered that the chair had accidentally left on the mike, and he exclaimed the phrase ‘jesus christ’ after i spoke. i do not know whether it was perhaps in reference to the fact that i have long hair and a beard, or maybe it was the fact that he did not like what i was saying. i do not really care whether he likes what i am saying or not, because that is not his job. his job is to be independent, and if i did want him to do his job properly, maybe he might make mr juncker answer the question instead of being exasperated about the fact that he did not like what i was saying. what i want here is an apology on behalf of the people who elected me, because it is insulting to have that phrase used about me; it is insulting to say that after someone speaks. can that chair come out and do the right thing and prove that they are independent? because there is not a lot of independence in the chair in my experience. can they prove it?
blue-card question.– could i ask you whether you would acknowledge the role of the european union in the peace process in northern ireland? because it did create a space to negotiate for those who were in disagreement, to put it mildly, and therefore, do you not see the value of the european union in peace work generally, but in particular in northern ireland? and while we cannot interfere in the uk referendum, as a neighbour of yours on the island of ireland, we do have to have a say and our voices need to be heard. i hope you will accept that.
mr president, millions of people of irish descent will vote in the brexit referendum. i suggest they listen to what i have to say here and judge the way they vote depending on how i get answered. mr juncker, who could not even be bothered to stay in the chamber: at the last plenary i asked: would you work with us towards lifting the unjust, unfair 31 billion promissory note burden that had been placed on our shoulders? i quoted the fact that the banking inquiry in ireland had pointed the finger directly at the ecb and had found that successive irish governments had in fact been bullied into accepting debt that could have been avoided. you did not even reply. since then, the supreme court in ireland has been hearing an appeal by a member of parliament into the constitutionality of those notes. in its defence, the state argued that the moment the notes were issued, they were not just a promise of billions to what even then was an insolvent and non-systemic bank; they were in fact capital, capital that was raised from the ela fund. this was a blatant violation of its rules, as the fund was only to be used for solvent institutions – and yet it was sanctioned by the ecb. why? because it feared contagion. mr juncker, wherever you are, 31 billion more than the entire combined tax take of ireland in 2010 was put into this. would britain put up with it? would luxembourg put up with it? would france put up with it? to the irish living in britain: why aren’t these questions being answered? so far my conclusion is: because they don’t bloody well care in here. unless it changes, vote to leave, irish people in britain. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– it is ironic, given that i said the irish people were not being listened to, that you did not actually listen to what i said as an irish mep. what i said was that, unless we get decent answers on this – because we were robbed: eur 500 million on three occasions this year has been borrowed and burned because of this – what i am saying is that, if the irish people do not get listened to here, they should take that into account, the ones that live in britain – some of them who had to leave during this crisis, some of them in their 20s – a quarter of a million people from ireland had to leave. what i said was that, if we do not get an answer, what else can you conclude but that the european union does not listen? well of course, unless it is bringing in right-wing policies like impoverishing poor people even further.
madam president, the council meeting discussed migration, and yet most of our debate here is talking about the uk referendum. so i want to begin by addressing this migration question, because it is linked to what is happening in terms of the uk and the potential outcome of that vote. i think that the european union has been found wanting. if you look at the neighbouring countries like turkey, lebanon and jordan, who have taken a great deal of people and to whom promises have been made in terms of funding from the european union, but who have yet to receive that money, i think that issue needs much more attention and much deeper focus, because citizens’ concerns on that issue are feeding into negativity around the european union. on the uk issue, i have already spoken in raising a question. we must not interfere, but we do – and have space, i think, to – give our opinions as a near neighbour in terms of a border with the united kingdom. i am an irish member and we have northern ireland on our borders. we will have an interest in the outcome, and clearly our interest is maintaining the uk in the european union.
uachtaráin, as seachtain na gaeilge, gives us the opportunity to celebrate our language, its influence on our culture and its identity. it is right and proper to go to the gaeil together with the other countries and to speak their language. the european parliament is invited to visit the various schools in order to use the dutch language. the school pupils will be given the opportunity to participate in european activities throughout the year, to debate, to debate and to vote on the role of the irish language in the school. this is the first time that the european parliament will be taking part in the games in ghaolainn, and it is a great honour to have you as a guest. in 2016, the dual language of gaeilgeoirí agus ar phobal na gaeilge an ghlúin nua a spreagadh agus a mhealladh i dtreo a dteanga agus a n-oidhreachta was introduced, which is the first language to be recognised as a n-oidhreachta. is maith an rud is an t-aos óg a chumhachtú le deiseanna a dteanga agus a n-oideachas a úsáid le féinmhuinín agus bród. is maith an rud is an t-aos óg a chumhachtú le deiseanna a dteanga agus a n-oideachas a úsáid le féinmhuinín agus bród. is maith an rud is an t-aos óg a chumhachtú le deiseanna a dteanga agus a n-oideachas a úsáid le féinmhuinín agus bród. is maith an rud is an t-aos óg a chumhachtú le deiseanna a dteanga agus a n-oideachas a úsáid le féinmhuinín agus bród. we are all part of the same community, and we are all part of the same community. currently, there are no public requirements in the gaelic language in the eu. you should not have been given the degree of an engaolainn, and then you should have been given the troid against the hiarrachta and kept in the issealcheim.
the next item is the report by soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2014 (2015/2231(ini)) (a8—0020/2016).
the president welcomes the report of emily o'reilly, the ombudsman, and commends her for the work she has done. it is therefore very important to have a legal basis for the exercise of rights, especially when such rights are taken into account; however, it is important to ensure that they are not treated as unlawful and that they are not used in other documents. although the commission has refused to provide full access, it is now obliged to be fully transparent. the same is of course true of ttip, and again it is so important that an ombudsman should have the power to appoint a body to be responsible for the group. the commission is called upon to be sensitive to citizens' concerns about ttip. the commission has also received a letter from emily o'reilly on the need to provide the commission with a report on the european year of the environment, which was published in the official journal of the european union. i've seen some examples of the work that's been done in the past, and i know there's a lot more going on than i've seen here. however, it shows that the ombudsman's office is exercising its right to be heard by the european citizens.
madam morvai, just very briefly, we are hearing a lot of interference so perhaps you could just allow the speaker to speak. thank you for your enthusiasm.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on – the oral question to the commission on tobacco agreement (pmi agreement) by bart staes, josé bové, on behalf of the group of the greens/european free alliance (o—000010/2016 – b8—0109/2016) (2016/2555(rsp)),– the oral question to the commission on tobacco agreement (pmi agreement) by ingeborg gräßle, petri sarvamaa, on behalf of the group of the european people’s party (christian democrats) (o—000014/2016 – b8—0110/2016) (2016/2555(rsp)),– the oral question to the commission on tobacco agreement (pmi agreement) by marco valli, rolandas paksas, on behalf of the europe of freedom and direct democracy group (o—000015/2016 – b8-0111/2016) (2016/2555(rsp)),– the oral question to the commission on tobacco agreement (pmi agreement) by inés ayala sender, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o—000016/2016 – b8—0112/2016) (2016/2555(rsp)),– the oral question to the commission on tobacco agreement (pmi agreement) by michael theurer, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o—000017/2016 – b8-0113/2016) (2016/2555(rsp)),– the oral question to the commission on tobacco agreement (pmi agreement) by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the european conservatives and reformists group (o—000018/2016 – b8-0114/2016) (2016/2555(rsp)), and– the oral question to the commission on tobacco agreement (pmi agreement) by dennis de jong, rina ronja kari, anne-marie mineur, martina anderson, matt carthy, liadh ní riada, sofia sakorafa, tania gonzález peñas, xabier benito ziluaga, miguel urbán crespo, estefanía torres martínez, lola sánchez caldentey, luke ming flanagan, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left – nordic green left (o—000019/2016 – b8-0115/2016) (2016/2555(rsp)).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this procedural report which recommends that malta and austria accede to the hague convention on service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents in civil or commercial matters. all the other eu countries (including ireland) are already signatories to this convention, which indicates the channels for transmission from one contracting state to another in the event of service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial acts. the method is through a central authority, which is organised by each state in accordance with its own law. as i recognise the sovereign right of countries to sign up to conventions, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. no objections.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote for the accession of austria and malta to the hague convention on the service abroad of judicial and extrajudicial documents as i believe that the convention facilitates judicial cooperation in cross-border civil and commercial litigations among the contracting parties. as the convention does not allow for international bodies such as the eu to be party to it, it is essential that all eu member states accede. i believe that the hague convention of 1965 is beneficial to its member states and to the european union as a whole. cross-border judicial and legal cooperation is paramount to the smooth running of the union.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report, as the hague convention establishes a system whereby documents can be served in another signatory state, which is very important for the union. of the 28 member states, 26 are already applying the convention. austria and malta, as the two remaining member states, have indicated their wish to join.
in writing. ‒ under the new agreement, the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of residents, starting in 2017. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. the agreement aims at ensuring that san marino applies strengthened measures that are equivalent to the eu legal framework, as upgraded in december 2014 (amending the directive on administrative cooperation, ‘dac2’) and that comply with the procedures for automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. i voted in favour of this report which represents an important step forward in efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because under the new agreement, the eu and san marino will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts of each other’s residents, starting in 2017. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this procedural recommendation. croatia joined the eu in 2013 and this recommendation concerns the date by which it is to accede to the convention on the protection of the european communities’ financial interests. all other eu countries are parties to this convention already and croatia already agreed to ratify it when negotiating its membership of the eu. the recommendation is for the date to be set in the council, where croatia has a voice on the matter itself.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i had no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because the 2011 accession treaty of the republic of croatia has introduced a simplified system for the accession of croatia to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis that it provides for croatia to accede to these conventions and protocols by virtue of the act of accession. i agree with the report and recommend approving this commission recommendation.
in writing. – we abstained on this report as we had some reservations about it, but did not want to block the progressive content. ‘eures’ is a network designed to facilitate the free movement of workers within the eu-28 countries + eea countries. the reform of eures aims to enhance labour mobility in the eu by making it easier for workers to access information about job vacancies and information about the various member state systems, and by making it easier for employers to recruit from all member states. the report we voted on was an improvement on the commission’s proposal, which focused on promoting market access for private employment services and mobility as a solution to unemployment. however, the regulation is still part of the commission’s mobility agenda which, in my view, primarily aims to create an integrated labour market in order to increase employers’ access to cheaper labour, which is why we could not fully support the report and abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as i had some reservations about it, but did not want to block the progressive content. ‘eures’ is a network designed to facilitate the free movement of workers within the eu-28 countries + eea countries. the reform of eures aims to enhance labour mobility in the eu by making it easier for workers to access information about job vacancies and information about the various member state systems, and by making it easier for employers to recruit from all member states. the report i voted on was an improvement on the commission’s proposal, which focused on promoting market access for private employment services and mobility as a solution to unemployment. however, the regulation is still part of the commission’s mobility agenda which, in my view, primarily aims to create an integrated labour market in order to increase employers’ access to cheaper labour, which is why i could not fully support the report and abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained as it involves further integration.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposal for a regulation on a european network of employment services, workers’ access to mobility services and the further integration of labour markets (eures). the new proposal aims to update the existing european-wide job-search network to improve employee mobility and make it more user-friendly and accessible for eu citizens. unfortunately intra-eu mobility of workers is not as high as most people think, with only 3.1% of the total labour force working in another member state, and there is a growing shortage of labour and skills in many regions and sectors across the eu. the revised eures will allow more targeted matching of supply and demand in the eu labour market. although limited, it is positive to see that traineeships and apprenticeships have been included in the revised network which will have a particular significance for young people and address skills and labour shortages in certain sectors. also positive is the inclusion of private as well as public employment services which will add extra vacancies to the network and the fact that all services for workers will be provided free of charge, while services for employers may involve costs but only in limited cases.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, due to the fact that the proposed regulation aims to enhance the access of workers to intra-eu mobility support services, maintaining the eures network as an effective instrument for jobseekers (including traineeships and apprenticeships) and registered employers, who have a stake in labour mobility within the union. all services for employees will be provided free of charge while services for employers could involve costs, but only in limited cases related to specific and individual services.
the president, my group and i voted on the report and 478 other members voted, and 123 others voted against. i think it's important that we report on this. i think the introduction of emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia is very important and indeed critical at this particular time, particularly because of the geopolitical position there. the commission has adopted a proposal for a regulation offering an additional temporary unilateral duty-free tariff quota for tunisia's exports of olive oil to the eu under the form of autonomous trade measures. i think this makes sense because up to a million people are employed, either directly or indirectly, in the production of olive oil. it's also sensible that we should have a mid-term impact assessment to see how it's impacting on our own suppliers here in europe and, if it's negatively impacting, we could take corrective measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which unilaterally offers tunisia 35 000 tonnes of olive oil exports at zero duty. this decision is in light of the negative effects of terrorist attacks on the tunisian economy. the extra tariff quotas would be in place for a period of two years from 1 january 2016 to 31 december 2017. although i do not agree that trade liberalisation is the best tool for boosting developing economies, as it can often have the effect of concentrating wealth in a few hands, olive oil is tunisia’s biggest agricultural export and employs in the region of one million people directly and indirectly. i therefore voted in favour of this temporary measure.
in writing. ‒ i abstained as i did not agree with the total package.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has been greatly affected by the arab spring and political instability of the surrounding regions. the country’s gdp has dropped significantly since 2011. given the long history of cooperation and trade between tunisia and the european union, the commission authorised the negotiation of a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement with tunisia and sought an annual duty-free quota on tunisian olive oil (tunisia’s largest agricultural export). the measure may marginally interfere with olive oil production within the eu member states, but can have a great impact on stability and security in the region. i believe that the implementation of such an agreement between the eu and tunisia would boost trade links and mutual cooperation between the parties and for these reason i voted in favour of my colleague marielle de sarnez’ report and against the proposal to reject the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ i chose to support this report, as the terrorist attack of 26 june 2015 in sousse prompted a reaction from the eu on the need to further assist tunisia in its political and economic transition, in a concrete and targeted manner, through actions that can be effective in the short term. i agree in endorsing the need for the eu to help relaunch tunisia’s economy in what is without doubt a difficult period.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which approves the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for 412 laid-off workers from hainaut namur glass in belgium. member states can make applications for the mobilisation of the egf if at least 500 workers are made redundant in a single company over four months or in a sector of the economy over nine months. the egf assistance provided can include active labour policies such as job-searching, training, upskilling, outplacement, education and business start-ups. in this case i supported the derogation from the 500 worker threshold – because it was not significant, and because i am in favour reducing the threshold to 200 laid-off workers. one hundred young people not in education or training will have access to the fund, and the use of the fund for allowances is only 5% of the maximum 35% allowed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for 412 laid-off workers from hainaut namur glass in belgium. members states can make applications for the mobilisation of the egf if at least 500 workers are made redundant in a single company over four months or in a sector of the economy over nine months. the egf assistance provided can include active labour policies such as job-searching, training, upskilling, outplacement, education and business start-ups. in this case i supported the derogation from the 500 worker threshold – because it was not significant, and because i am in favour reducing the threshold to 200 laid-off workers. one hundred young people not in education or training will have access to the fund, and the use of the fund for allowances is only 5% of the maximum 35% allowed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it benefits ordinary workers.
in writing. ‒ i supported this application to mobilise eur 1 095 544 of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for 412 glass workers made redundant following the closure of production plants in the hainaut and namur regions. glass production has been seriously disrupted and in a ten-year period employment in the glass sector as a whole in europe decreased by 32%. in wallonia, with its strong tradition of glass-making, the number of jobs in the sector in the namur and hainaut regions decreased by 19% between 2007 and 2012 with further large job losses in 2013 and 2014. i was very pleased to see that the application will support a further 100 young people not in employment, education or training (neets) with measures specifically aimed at providing them with assistance such as mobilisation and guidance either for further education/training or to follow induction sessions and personalised upskilling, and i particularly welcome the fact that the belgian authorities started providing the personalised services for the workers affected on 10 september 2015, well ahead of the decision on granting egf support for the proposed coordinated package. it is also very positive that allowances and incentives to be provided amongst the proposed measures are limited to 5.52% of total estimated costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it concerns mobilising the fund for 412 workers who were made redundant during the period 31 august 2014 to 31 may 2015 and up to 100 targeted young people not in employment, education or training (neets). in the wallonia region, which has a strong tradition of glass-making, several large enterprises have faced difficulties in recent years, with the number of jobs in the regions of namur and hainaut decreasing by 19% between 2007 and 2012 and 1 236 job losses in 2013 and 1 878 in 2014 in wallonia.
the president, voted again with my group in all the votes in the report on august 8th, and the orm gur succeeded in getting the report to the morh mor; two thirds of it was made in february, i.e. 395, and 203 in coin. i think the commission deserves praise for the ambitious initiatives it has brought out in its first year in operation, particularly supporting jobs and growth and trying to reinforce economic convergence and strengthen social fairness. their three priorities for 2016 are commendable: relaunching investment, which is crucial; pursuing structural reforms to modernise our economies; and, of course, responsible rather than populist fiscal policies. i also welcome their commitment to try to reduce long-term unemployment and especially the unacceptably high levels of youth unemployment. the more you read the better, the easier it is to get into europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which forms part of a wider agenda to deepen europe’s economic and monetary union (emu). the overall aim is to bind member states to economic and fiscal policies at an eu level. in effect, the report represents a well-coordinated effort to institutionalise austerity. moreover, the report offers no way out of the prevailing austerity narrative. in fact, it proposes the intensification of austerity policies. the immediate priorities are on boosting competitiveness and structural convergence, imposing fiscal policies and gradually making the convergence process ever more binding and therefore impacting directly on ireland’s ability to implement our own legislation. although this report contained some elements which sought to give more involvement to national parliaments in the semester process, sinn féin generally opposes the european semester, which works to deny citizens real political choices when electing their governments. since i also oppose the austerity agenda of the overall report, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amendment 12 as i wish to see the negotiations on ttip suspended.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i approve of the three policy priorities for 2016: re-launching investment, pursuing structural reforms and responsible fiscal policies. the annual growth survey highlights the importance of the european fund for structural investments (efsi) and the use of funds under horizon 2020, the connecting europe facility and the european structural and investment funds, the need to address macroeconomic imbalances, convergence towards the best performers, tackling long-term unemployment, improving the business environment, respect for common fiscal rules, reduction of public debt and growth-friendly expenditure.
in writing. – i voted against this report because i am opposed to the european semester, the eu’s annual cycle of economic governance and surveillance. this report attempts to make some socially progressive statements regarding workers’ rights and combating poverty – however, these proposals are within the framework of the european semester, which is fundamentally conservative and pro—business at the expense of citizens, communities, economic sovereignty and democracy in the eu. the report also welcomes the commission recommendation on the euro area under the economic and monetary union of the eu, which is another reason why i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as the semester process is an intrusion into our sovereignty.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on employment and social aspects of the ags 2016. while the unemployment rate has been decreasing since the end of 2013 it is still too high in many member states, affecting 23 million europeans, about half of whom are long-term unemployed and with youth unemployment even higher still at 22.6%. according to the commission, employment and social divergences within and between member states persist and social developments point to further divergence across the eu, hindering growth, employment and cohesion. in this context it is crucial that further structural reforms are socially just and it is positive that the commission has emphasised social fairness in the new national stability and reform programmes, adding three employment indicators. in particular i supported the call on the commission and member states to implement measures to improve job quality along with measures raising minimum wages to an adequate level in line with the principle of subsidiarity to reduce wage dispersion and on member states to assess and increase investment in their current social protection systems, in order to tackle and prevent poverty and inequality while also ensuring their sustainability in the face of expected demographic, economic and new social challenges.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report due to the fact that despite the economic priorities of the 2015 annual growth survey remaining valid, policy efforts need to be strengthened and the commission needs to focus efforts on three priorities for 2016, namely re-launching investment, pursuing structural reforms to modernise economies, and responsible fiscal policies. in 2016 three employment indicators have been added to the main scoreboard: the activity rate, long-term unemployment and youth unemployment.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which takes as its premise that the single market is the only way to deliver effectively on jobs, growth and competitiveness, in the framework of the european semester. the report proposed creating a new ‘single market’ pillar in the european semester to evaluate integration. as i am against the european semester as a matter of political principle, i voted against this report to strengthen it.
in writing. ‒ i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this single market governance report within the european semester. this report is one of two annual contributions from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection to the european semester process. it focuses, in particular, on the commission’s ‘single market for growth and jobs’ report accompanying the annual growth survey and dealing with the state of the integration of the single market. the single market has brought tremendous benefits for european citizens and businesses, the free movement of goods, services and capital and is crucial to stimulating competition. however, in some areas there is no truly integrated european market as missing legislation, administrative obstacles, and a lack of enforcement leaves the full potential of the single market unexploited. this report outlines several proposals that reiterate the need for strong leadership from all the eu institutions and clear political ownership on the part of the member states in order to achieve tangible improvements and a more stringent governance for the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report due to the fact that it stresses that despite the lack of straightforward tariff barriers in the single market, a vast number of various non-tariff barriers do exist. the report also encourages the eu institutions, the member states and all relevant stakeholders to launch a constructive debate on this issue in order to overcome the non-tariff obstacles within the eu. the single market is a precious resource which the european union’s current and future economic prosperity depends upon.
the uachtaráin, again voted with my group in a plurality of all the houses and voted the laws the morramh more: 479 in favour and 123 against. but of course, in recent years there has been a lot of sea change, and laws have been passed in various countries to protect our oceans and our oceans. but of course, we're going to do one of the laws in tuinéis comh maith. i don't think there will be a president who is as conspicuous as some of the other nations, especially ttip, but there will be a president who is conspicuous about it; i think we know what will happen. regarding the laws of tunis, it is correct to speak against the laws. i would like to say to mr morvai that we must be careful not to interfere with our farmers here in europe and to make them compete with other countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which would build on the existing free trade area covered by the euro-mediterranean association agreement signed some 20 years ago. the now proposed ‘deep and comprehensive free trade agreement’ would widen the scope to cover technical barriers to trade, investment protection, public procurement and competition policy, liberalisation of trade in services and trade in agriculture. specifically i am disappointed that the resolution does not make any reference to re-discussing tunisia’s debt or the real participation of tunisian civil society and trade unions in the negotiation process. for these reasons i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as i am not in favour of the terms.
in writing. ‒ i along with alde fully supported this free-trade agreement between the eu and tunisia. in october of 2015, the eu and tunisia launched negotiations on an ambitious free-trade agreement on the basis of a mandate adopted in december 2011. this free-trade agreement is part of a broader framework to strengthen that relationship. this resolution by the committee on internal trade emphasises that sensitive markets in the eu need to be protected but in general outlines how both markets will benefit from the agreement. it also highlights the fact that tunisia is currently hosting over 8 million refugees and such an agreement helps to build and maintain the stability and peace in the maghreb countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution because the deepening of eu-tunisia trade relations through the conclusion of an ambitious trade partnership represents an opportunity for growth and closer ties between the economies of tunisia and the eu. this partnership must also contribute to the political and democratic stabilisation of tunisia. the tunisian economy faces the major difficulties that gdp grew by 2.3% in 2014 and the unemployment rate in 2015 was 15% of the active population, that 28.6% of graduates have no jobs and that unemployment among young tunisians is rising.
the president has been asked to speak on this subject by emily o'reilly and i am delighted to hear that she has done so and has given this important post. in 2014, 2,163 people were arrested and sentenced to three years in prison for crimes against humanity. i'm not sure what i'm supposed to do, but i'm not supposed to do it. i also welcome the fact that a five-year strategy has been drawn up by the ombudsman and that, as i have said, in a year the matter will be opened up. so, it's a great job to do this and i'm really happy and i'm really proud of it. mar fhocal scoir, ba mhaith liom tú féin a mholadh as an dea-jab a rinne tú sa chathaoir inniu. i'm not going to tell you what i think. read against the laws and give-away, to uachtaráin!
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the activities of the european ombudsman, emily o’reilly. the work of the ombudsman has been instrumental in holding eu processes and officials to account in many ways. of note are recent own-initiative investigations which sought to expose the lack of transparency within ttip and investigations into ‘revolving doors’ between lobbyists and eu officials. the report also notes how as a result of this office’s inquiries that the european central bank has disclosed a letter to the irish government on the financial crisis, and that the commission has followed the ombudsman’s recommendation to release documents on the reform of the common fisheries policy. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained as i was not completely satisfied with report.
in writing. ‒ the main priority of the european ombudsman is to ensure that citizens’ rights are fully respected and the right to good administration reflects the highest standards as expected of the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union. i welcome the re-election of emily o’reilly to the position of european ombudsman and anticipate her continued good work. i also welcome the fact that there is greater openness in the ongoing ttip negotiations following the ombudsman’s inquiries. i support the ombudsman’s increased cooperation with the european institutions, and particularly the european parliament, and therefore i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report because it fully supports the fact that the ombudsman is making greater use of the power to open strategic investigations on its own initiative. in 2014 the ombudsman opened 325 inquiries on the basis of complaints as well as 17 own-initiative inquiries and it closed 387 complaints-based inquiries as well as 13 own-initiative inquiries. the main sources of complaints were individual citizens (335) and companies, associations and other legal entities (52).
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. aside from some worrisome elements within the text, i also strongly object to the manner in which this text came to be voted upon. compromise amendments, which had included the input from all political parties, were discarded at the last minute in favour of ‘alternative compromises’ from a few select groupings. although there were some good elements in the report, which highlighted the detrimental and negative role the ecb played in greece, i strongly object to the undemocratic architecture of the ecb as a whole and therefore these elements were not strong enough for me to endorse the entire text. it goes without saying that rather than developing further steps towards pooling sovereignty, there is a need to reject austerity policies, prioritise public investment, democratise the governance structure and to redefine the european monetary union. in any event, the ecb is based on the idea of deepening the power of supranational bodies which will move the political power further away from the people. this is fundamentally undemocratic and an agenda which i strongly oppose.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. i believe ireland should leave eurozone.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european central bank annual report 2014. this annual report describes the previous year’s activities of the european central bank and reports on the eurozone’s monetary policy. it correctly highlights our modest recovery and current low growth environment. its outlines some clear causes and obstacles of the union’s slow growth such as poor financing conditions for smes, the modest impact of the asset purchase programme on money and credit dynamics, and the effect of negative interest rates on deposits. it also correctly voices concerns about possible unintended consequences and long-term effects of unconventional monetary policy measures. i was particularly pleased to see the report also states that the ecb’s involvement in the troika was illegal and calls for an assessment of the role the ecb played within troika.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report which is the parliament’s annual own initiative report on the activities of the european central bank. it covers the interesting period of the ecb’s unconventional measures destined to combat very low levels of inflation. this occurred during the time when most of the member states that had been through a sovereign debt crisis were exiting their programmes, while the economic recovery in the euro area was still developing.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on opening free trade agreement negotiations with australia and new zealand. while fair trade that benefits all parties is something i am in favour of in general, the radical eradication of any trade barriers for the sake of it is not necessarily in the interest of the people. in this instance the move to open fta negotiations is motivated by the conclusion of the tpp and a fear of the eu being cut out of the asia-pacific region. there are particular sensitivities to take into account when opening negotiations with countries such as australia and new zealand, the latter being known for its large agricultural and dairy outputs. the seasonal nature of trade patterns with these countries also mean that the abolition of trade barriers, tariff and non-tariff will cause market changes. finally this agreement again includes the eu’s proposed ‘investment court’ which i have completely opposed in ttip. for these reasons i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on the opening of free trade agreement negotiations with australia and new zealand. both are close political and trading partners of the eu and the opening of negotiations for two separate ftas has the potential for economic growth and investment for all involved, but this must be done without lowering any consumer, environmental or social and labour protection levels. in the resolution we call on the commission to study all additional market access opportunities for european economic operators, especially smes, offered by the possible ftas and to weigh these against any possible defensive interests, given that both australia and new zealand have already comparatively open markets and very low tariffs. i also supported amendments to closely monitor certain agriculture sectors such as the dairy and meat sectors and where appropriate exclude them from the negotiations and to maintain high animal welfare standards. ultimately the parliament will have the final say on any agreed ftas and the above issues will be crucial to achieving agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it underlines the importance of deepening relations between the eu and the asia-pacific region for economic growth within europe and stresses that this is reflected in the european union’s trade policy. the resolution also recognises that australia and new zealand are a key part of this strategy and that widening and deepening trade with these partners can help to meet this goal. the full potential of the union’s bilateral and regional cooperation strategies can only be realised by concluding high-quality ftas with both australia and new zealand.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this resolution on the registration of pet animals across member states which states the need for compatible systems for registration requirements for pet animals for the purposes of the protection of public and animal health. ngos, law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and vets have all given evidence of growing illegal abuse of the pet travel scheme. such illegality poses threats to public health given the lack of vaccination, veterinary and sanitary care common amongst illegally traded pet animals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the registration of pet animals across member states which states the need for compatible systems for registration requirements for pet animals for the purposes of the protection of public and animal health. ngos, law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and vets have all given evidence of growing illegal abuse of the pet travel scheme. such illegality poses threats to public health given the lack of vaccination, veterinary and sanitary care common amongst illegally traded pet animals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. no objections to the agreement.
in writing. ‒ pet owners should be able to travel with their pets in a safe, controlled manner throughout the union. however, there are concerns of the illegal abuse of the pet travel scheme, which is being exploited for commercial purposes and also of wild animals commonly being kept as pets. pet animals that are traded illegally are often badly bred, poorly socialised and at increased risk of disease. a compatible system of identification and registration requirements for dogs and cats would reduce the scope for document falsification and illegal trading, thus improving animal welfare, protecting public and animal health and providing for effective intra-union traceability. therefore i have decided to vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this resolution due to the fact that non-governmental organisations, law enforcement agencies, competent authorities and veterinarians have shown evidence of a growing illegal trade in pet animals, with widespread abuse of the pet travel scheme, evasion of controls and document falsification. the abuse of the pet travel scheme is now estimated to be the third most profitable illegal trade within the eu after narcotics and weapons. pet animals that are traded illegally are often badly bred, poorly socialised and at increased risk of disease.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it is an abomination that saudi arabia is sold any arms.
in writing. ‒ the situation in yemen has now become a grave humanitarian concern for the european parliament. given the serious risk of increased conflict and worsened conditions for civilians, i believe that it is essential that an initiative to launch an eu arms embargo on saudi arabia be implemented. the saudi-led coalition has conducted airstrikes and a naval blockade in yemen which has destabilised the region, led to thousands of deaths and consequently broken down its entire internal infrastructure. this clearly presents a serious risk to the stability and security of the region, but also presents a danger to the civilian population who now find themselves on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe. terrorist groups such as isis and aqap have taken advantage of the worsening conditions by increasing their memberships. cooperation from both saudi arabia and iran is necessary in order to obtain peace in the region. peace in yemen is paramount to the security of the arabian peninsula region and for this reason i have decided to vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the current crisis in yemen is the result of a failure by successive governments to meet the legitimate aspirations of the yemeni people for democracy, economic and social development, stability and security. this failure has created the conditions for an outbreak of violent conflict by failing to establish an inclusive government and fair power sharing, and systematically ignoring the country’s many tribal tensions, widespread insecurity and economic paralysis.
i declare resumed the session of the european parliament adjourned on thursday 25 february 2016. president schulz cannot be with us this evening. he was invited to join the european council at its meeting taking place today in brussels, and therefore he cannot be here. instead you have me. i hope i will live up to the same standard as president schulz.
the final draft agenda as drawn up pursuant to rule 149 by the conference of presidents at its meeting of thursday 3 march 2016 has been distributed. the following changes have been proposed: monday: no changes proposed tuesday: the ecr group had asked that the report by mr kirkhope on the use of passenger name record data (eu-pnr) be added at 8.30, as the first item in the morning. if the item is added to our agenda, the vote would take place on thursday.
mr nicholson, it was a decision of the conference of presidents, but we hear your words. (the order of business was thus established)
the next item is the report by marc tarabella, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the aid scheme for the supply of fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk in the educational establishments (com(2014)0032 – c7-0025/2014 – 2014/0014 (cod)) (a8-0006/2016).
madam president, coming from the island of ireland, ports are obviously very important to us, and thankfully we have some fine ports both in northern ireland and in the republic of ireland. post cop21, the role of the maritime sector, shipping and ports are going to be very important in helping us to meet our targets regarding emissions, and particularly the development of the motorways of the seas. for that reason, it is important that ports are functioning properly and that there be transparency, intra-port competition, and that the rights of workers, etc., be protected. but we also need to develop the core network corridor, especially for ports like shannon foynes in my own constituency, which is one of the deepest ports in europe – and with the panama canal now doubling its capacity, deep ports are going to be required. by the extension of the network corridor, this would be a huge asset both to shannon foynes and, indeed, to europe generally, and i think that is something we should consider.
madam president, i would first like to congratulate ms ward on her birthday – coincidentally, i share the same birthday as my mother as well. ireland joined the european union 1973. at that time, women who got married had to retire from working in the civil service. the european union insisted that the rule be changed, and of course it made sense and it has been that way ever since. so the european union has form in trying to promote gender equality, and i agree completely with that. incidentally, we have just emerged from our general elections. we had a quota for women candidates for the first time ever – it had to be 30 % – and while many people were against it, it was significant that far more women were elected to the next government – or the next dáil as we call it – than the previous one. so while people might not agree with quotas, this does seem to work, and it is necessary until we get proper equality between men and women.
madam president, today i received an email from carmel nic airt, who is a primary school teacher from west cork in ireland. carmel is volunteering on the island of leros, assisting refugees. the refugees are being held in detention camps with no provision for food supply or waste management. voluntary organisations, already totally overstretched, are being asked to help them. carmel is absolutely shocked that the most basic needs of these refugees – food and water, sanitation – are not being met, and she has written to all irish meps to ask for help. i had hoped that today’s council meeting would provide some solutions, some framework or some hope, but once again we see no resolution; nothing. i am disappointed and despondent. estimates suggest that by the end of this month there will be 130 000 refugees in greece just this year alone. only coordinated and concerted eu action can begin to address this issue. if our leaders cannot frame a solution, extremely difficult though that may be, not only will the migrants suffer, so also will the eu itself.
madam president, my one minute speech this evening is about the security of gas supply and i must compliment commissioners šefčovič and arias cañete on their proposals in this regard. they are very practical and sensible. we need to diversify supply and, of course, with the outcome of cop21 the need for renewables is more and more necessary. but renewables need backup and the ideal backup is gas. now, with the development of lng right across the water, particularly in the us, australia and the middle east, the proposals by the commission are very sensible – to build lng terminals across europe. one of those is in my own constituency, shannon lng, which would be a wonderful hub locally, and of course would help to utilise particularly gas coming from the us because we would be the closest port to it, to transport it off into europe. i would hope that we will see this happening and particularly to get the pcis developed across europe. that is the key for now.
the president, i think it is important to be clear that there is no one in the world, but the international day of women is a day that should be focused on. it is particularly important that we have a debate in this institution, the european parliament, because there is no other institution in the world that has more rights than the european parliament, and there is no reason why we should have a debate in this institution. but of course she did, i think she did it. i was looking at you for a week. there was a quota of women in our party for the first time ever; 30% of women in every party were standing in the future and therefore more women were banned from dáil éireann than ever. they're not going to get away with it. freisin, i heard on the radio that when you go to boird bodies, you're more brawny than when you don't go to boird bodies. without the ceacht of chuile dhuine.
the sitting is now resumed and we come to the votes. there are a great number of votes, so i would ask that we all cooperate to allow a smooth running of the session.
that is adopted. so this matter is referred back to committee to allow the interinstitutional negotiations to begin.
for ireland, 40% of exports to the eu, especially meat oil, will be subject to strict quality standards. i agree with the rapporteur. we need both to prevent and control animal diseases which are transmissible to both animals and humans, not only for animal welfare but also for public health. it is of crucial importance to set up a clear framework to identify diseases and potential threats and to clarify responsible parties in all cases for maintaining and monitoring the implementation of good animal welfare. the expected result of this would of course be to reduce the use of antibiotics in animals, and therefore improve the quality of life for animals and also the quality of our agricultural output.
in writing. ‒ this new law, which was passed in the european parliament today, is a timely development. all farmers and other animal owners and traders will be obliged to apply the principles of good animal husbandry. responsible and prudent use of veterinary medicines is also an obligation under this animal health law. in particular, this law helps us to minimise the risk of animal diseases spreading across different european countries by imposing movement restrictions, culls and farming restrictions where there have been outbreaks of diseases. preventive measures are indeed what we need in a system where there are too many different laws and high quantities of meat import and export within the eu. this is an instance of eu legislation helping to minimise administrative burdens by consolidating different pieces of legislation. in this case, no less than 36 different laws were merged into one.
in writing. ‒ measures must be taken to avoid and halt outbreaks of animal disease, including diseases such as avian flu and foot and mouth disease. animal and human health must be linked directly, to ensure the responsible use of antibiotics. this will enable us to fight against antimicrobial resistance. the report will allow authorities and producers to direct their attention to the prevention and control of transmissible animal diseases. farmers, traders and animal professionals will now have clarified responsibilities with regard to husbandry and use of medicines. the commission is now enabled to take measures aimed at tackling emerging diseases with significant impact on public health and agricultural production. the european food safety authority will have to be consulted now when potentially dangerous diseases are added to the eu’s list. to avoid outbreaks of disease caused by strays or illegally traded animals, all pet keepers and sellers must now register themselves. the commission is also empowered to ask member states to create national databases of cats, dogs and other household animals.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. ‒ i had to correct my vote on this report, it was the first report to be voted on and by the time i found my voting card, the vote was open and in my rush i pressed the green instead of the red button. nonetheless i am in favour of this regulation that lays down rules for the prevention and control of animal diseases which are transmissible to animals or to humans. this eu animal health law provides a new framework to simplify the current system by clarifying the division of responsibilities between animal keepers, traders, veterinarians, and national authorities. it also puts in place better notification and surveillance tools to fight animal diseases. operators will also benefit from more proportionate rules easing animal movements where lower risks permit, so it is also worth remembering that transmissible diseases in animals can have a significant effect on the economy, food safety and in certain circumstances human health. transmissible diseases know no borders and so we need eu legislation to deal with this issue.
in writing. ‒ i supported the final agreement between parliament and the council on this eu animal health law as it provides a new framework to modernise and simplify the current system by clarifying the division of responsibilities between animal keepers, traders, veterinarians, and national authorities, and puts in place better notification and surveillance tools to fight animal diseases. i believe a balance has been struck to ensure more proportionate rules easing animal movements where lower risks permits. i also think that this proposal will encourage greater use of new technologies in the area of animal health.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this second reading agreement, which creates a clear regulatory framework for the control and the prevention of animal diseases, some of which can be transferable to humans while also curbing antimicrobial resistance.
the european parliament supported the report and is expected to support the scheme in the future. the commission has also made it clear that the scheme is not compatible with the common market. therefore, it is not right for you to keep your oath. so i agree with the rapporteur that in the current context of declining consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk products among children in the eu, an extended list of healthy and local foodstuffs eligible for eu funding should be distributed. an extended list of milk, vegetable and food products, which includes other products such as nuts, yoghurt and cheese, is necessary in order to sufficiently follow nutritional recommendations on calcium absorption, promote the consumption of these products and further help respond to the particular nutritional needs of children.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today’s vote in parliament to provide schools with fruit and vegetables, bananas and milk, across the eu. this programme helps us promote the consumption of healthy food in schools and also change the food eating habits of our future generations. from august 2017, schools will have to prioritise the distribution of fresh food over processed food. added sweeteners and artificial flavour enhancers will also be totally banned from the products distributed under the school schemes for the first time. products containing added sugar, salt and fat will, as a general rule, be prohibited and would only be allowed after being authorised by national health authorities. furthermore, limits of salt, sugar and fat will be defined at eu level by the commission via a delegated act. in ireland, one in four children is overweight or obese. if we do not start changing habits now, we will be faced with even bigger costs in the health system due to increased numbers of patients suffering from diabetes, diseases, cancer and a vast range of other conditions associated with obesity and poor dietary habits. there is an increasing need to restrict sugar and unhealthy fat intake. this will help our younger generations live healthier and longer lives.
in writing. ‒ action must be taken on the declining consumption of fresh fruit and vegetables and milk products amongst children. childhood obesity is increasing due to the consumption of food with high sugar, salt and fat levels. it is necessary to ensure healthy eating habits within educational establishments, along with promoting the consumption of local products. the financial stability of this scheme must be protected by ensuring member states cannot unilaterally cut the budget or alter the criteria for the allocation of eu funds. healthy eating standards can be promoted by educating children on local food, eating habits and organic farming, along with the challenges of food waste. the scheme must give priority to under-consumed fresh and local products to ensure maximum benefit to participants. the scheme will exclude foods with artificial flavours and added sweeteners, any foods with limited amounts of added sugar, salt and fat will receive funding as an exception pending the approval of national health authorities.
in writing. ‒ i abstained as i believe it is ridiculous to deal with this at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal that sees the merger of the school milk scheme (sms) with the school fruit and vegetables scheme. this proposal should promote consumption of these products among school children, and help educate children on healthy eating habits. statistics show that children are eating less and less fresh fruit, drinking less milk and eating more and more processed food. that is considered one of the causes of obesity amongst children. previously this parliament voted to reject 30%-sugar-content baby food for the same reason. in order to improve this situation this proposal merges both the school fruit and milk scheme under the same legislative framework, thus trying to make it more ‘user friendly’ for member states and lower the administrative burden. furthermore, it also adds an educational dimension to the scheme where children will have to be introduced to agricultural issues, nutrition/health and environmental issues.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe it represents a fair outcome to the inter-institutional trilogues held in 2015. the main issues in this regulation of the legal basis, scope and allocation criteria have been addressed fairly and i think it will be important that we have a new combined school scheme commencing in august 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement, which merges the school fruit and vegetables scheme with the school milk scheme, allocating eur 250 million annually to educational establishments throughout the member states, while also promoting healthy diets for school children and supporting local and regional produce.
the president, i voted for my group in the report and i think that there are a lot of good things that we can do and we should focus on openness and transparency in our work and we should also be aware of the need to bring the truth to our work. on the other hand, it is important to remember what happened at cop 21 in paris in august and the challenges we face in reducing emissions in the future. and if we don't meet our targets, we'll have to direct our efforts to the next target. and i think that's a wonderful thing for us, because it's more secure than most of the other european ports and it could do a lot for the traders and it would take a long time to introduce it and you can't get into other ports and you can't even look at them.
in writing. ‒ rules aimed at improving the efficiency and cutting the cost of services supplied at eu maritime ports are necessary. fees for using port services, such as mooring and towage, should be transparent. public funding received by the port should be equally as transparent. this would result in a boost to trade by preventing the abuse of price and the distortion of markets. port arrangements currently in place may remain in place so long as they meet the standard requirements. for safety reasons, ports must be able to choose the organisation of port services, meaning free market access cannot be obliged. common rules for port managers and member states who wish to limit the number of service providers must be laid out, creating minimum requirements. minimum requirements for port service suppliers should include proving professional qualifications, also respecting maritime safety, national social standards and environmental requirements. to ensure transparency, publicly-funded activity should be kept in separate accounts. fees must be set in a non-discriminatory, transparent manner and they should not be disproportionate to the value of the service provided.
in writing. ‒ i supported the rapporteur of this draft regulation that aims at contributing to the goal of a more efficient, interconnected and sustainable functioning of the ten-t, by creating a framework which improves the performance of all ports and helps them to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements. this regulation shall apply to all seaports listed in the commission’s proposal for a regulation on the trans-european transport network guidelines, while ensuring a balanced approach between legislative action and a soft approach as exemplified by the social dialogue. in ireland, our commercial ports already fulfil the principles of this regulation as confirmed by the competition authority in their report of 2013. in addition, irish ports already fulfil the financial transparency elements of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe the intent of the proposal is very welcome. it is important that the eu provides adequate regulation on the extent to which market access for ports should be opened. we also need to examine the social provisions concerning workers, and the importance of financial transparency and legal certainty regarding state aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted to open negotiation between the council and the commission in the trans committee. this report must fulfil its goal to create more sustainable and better functioning ports which will be able to deal with future changes in the transport sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. this file is concerned with the harmonised index of consumer prices (hcip) the hcip deals with price stability. the problematic aspects of the text relates to the fact that there is a provision within the text which permits the possibility of allowing for future indexes in the following areas: narcotics, games of chance, prostitution, life insurance, which of course raises a number of issues. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ quality statistics and their comparability are fundamentally important for all union citizens, researchers and those directing public policy in the union. the development, production and dissemination of data on harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) at national and subnational level must be done within a uniform legal framework. the hicp can be crucial in providing a measurement of inflation used as input for deflating economic values. this affects rents, interest rates, and salaries which form the basis for monetary and economic decisions. statistics of this nature must be comparable across all member states and must be of an objective, unbiased nature. regulations on hicp must be updated to include decisions introduced by the lisbon treaty which allows the commission to create implementing or legislative measures which can amend unnecessary parts of a regulation. the hicp can be an essential tool in the analysis of causes of inflation. it can also be used to predict the effect of future tax changes on inflation. hicp flash estimates provided monthly by member states would be crucial to analyse the conduct of monetary policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the legislative proposal because it leads to unnecessary interference in member states.
in writing. ‒ i along with alde voted in favour of this regulation on harmonised indices of consumer prices. this regulation lays down a common framework for the development, production and dissemination of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) and of housing prices (hpi) at union, national and sub-national level. harmonised indices of consumer prices are destroyed by massive inflation in a harmonised manner across member states. they are essential for assessing and measuring convergence in terms of price liability within the eu. the regulation consolidates revisions to the original 1995 regulation, simplifies and clarifies the requirements for the compilation of these indices and takes account of new technical aspects of data collection. in this regard the regulation will allow national statistical institutes (cso) to collect statistical unit data in an electronic form, e.g. scanner data from retailers, for the purposes of compiling the indices. this proposal ensures the principles of the european statistics code of practice relating to commitment to quality, sound methodology, cost effectiveness, relevance, accuracy, reliability and compatibility.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because this regulation consolidates revisions to the original 1995 regulation, it simplifies and clarifies the requirements for the compilation of harmonised indices of consumer prices (hicp) and takes account of new technical aspects of data collection. it is important that we update legislation regularly and make it fit for purpose; this is exactly what this regulation does.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to harmonise indices for the hicp. this will facilitate the comparison of inflation and determine price stability in all member states.
in writing. ‒ corruption is a concern for all member states, costing the eu economy around €120 billion per year. the eu’s policy should include the protection of the eu’s financial interests amongst its main elements. the average vat loss for member states in 2014 exceeded 15.2%. it is necessary for the commission to create a mechanism that would encourage companies to pay regular tax rather than committing tax avoidance. the time between the appearance of an irregularity, its discovery and the final commission report is now three years four months. the commission should engage with the member states to ensure there is an improvement in the efficiency of discovery and reporting. the commission is called upon to ameliorate the diverging approaches that exist between member states in the detection of irregularities. a system of uniform criteria should be developed by the commission that would measure the levels of corruption in each member state whilst evaluating their anti-corruption policies. member states must transpose directive 2014/24/eu, making e-procurement mandatory whilst introducing monitoring requirements.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it was positive overall.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report by the commission on the protection of the eu’s financial interests. one of the main conclusions of this year’s report stresses the urgent need of including vat in the scope of an adopted pif directive, and it asks the council to explain its reasons for delaying the negotiations in view of the adoption of the european public prosecutor’s office regulation (eppo regulation) and calls for better harmonisation of criminal law when eu funds are at stake. i am glad to see that we recognise the proven effectiveness of olaf’s investigations into the commission’s report where at the same time we criticise member states’ failure to follow up on its recommendations. it is good to see that fraudulent irregularities dropped by 4% last year but this follows a sharp increase in the previous year. a new biannual eu anti-corruption report will also be produced by the commission this year, with the first edition expected to be published in the coming months.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because i believe this report demonstrates a good benchmark by which member states can put in place policies of sound and transparent spending procedures in their budgets. the report also comprehensively addresses the issue of corruption, which is estimated to cost the eu economy around eur 120 billion per year. member states and the eu institutions need to step up their action to ensure that this figure is drastically reduced.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to take measures to counter fraud that have a negative impact on the financial interests of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with the efforts made by the european parliament’s internal structures to integrate a gender perspective and gender representation into its work and policies. gender mainstreaming is both important and necessary. on a separate but much related point, my party, sinn féin has proposed practical solutions for addressing the gender pay gap in ireland. we have agreed with the national women’s council of ireland that if we wish to bridge the divide between men and women’s pay we need to increase the incomes of low paid workers, increase the supply of affordable and quality childcare, and advocate a fairer sharing of caring work between women and men. gender discrimination is far from buried. only this week, the nevin economic institute reported that 60% of all low paid workers are women. almost three in every ten female workers are low paid, compared to a factor of two in ten male workers. the majority of low paid women work in three employment sectors: wholesale and retail, accommodation and food, and health and social work. sinn féin will continue to use our mandate in brussels and leinster house to continue campaigning for fairness and equality at work.
in writing. ‒ gender mainstreaming can be used as a tool in achieving gender equality. it allows for the integration of a gender perspective into preparation, function, implementation and evaluation of policies with the goal of promoting equality between genders and avoiding discrimination. all eu policies, both internal and external, should be created to benefit males and females equally. the representation of females in key decision-making positions both at political and administrative levels are low, even within the parliament’s political groups. when women do chair committees they tend to be less connected to economic decision-making. the parliament must make sure that the decision making process is shared evenly amongst genders to ensure equality. gender mainstreaming first necessitates the integration of a gender perspective to the content of policies. it also engages with the issue of representation of women and men in a particular policy area. this ensures that the needs of all citizens, regardless of gender, are met.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour, because if we don’t have equality in this institution, then what hope is there for society?
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support my colleague angelika mlinar who was rapporteur on this report on gender mainstreaming in the work of the european parliament. equality between women and men is one of the fundamental principles of eu law, a common value and a necessary condition for the achievement of the eu objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion. for 20 years now, the commission committed itself to a ‘dual approach’ towards realising gender equality. this means mainstreaming a gender perspective into all policies, while also implementing specific measures to eliminate, prevent or remedy gender inequalities. this report supports that commitment by the commission by calling for a rotating co-chair for the gender mainstreaming network, a strong and stable relationship between the ep high-level group for gender equality and diversity, targeted trainings for staff and meps, and a standing rapporteur on gender mainstreaming to ensure better and more effective cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe parliament has the organisational structure and capacity to promote gender mainstreaming in its activities. this report manages to highlight the key areas where parliament needs to improve the gender balance in its decision-making.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this progressive report which was concerned with the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers. recent research conducted by amnesty international shows that women and girl refugees face violence, assault, exploitation and sexual harassment at every stage of their journey, including on european soil. the organisation interviewed 40 refugee women and girls in northern europe in december 2015 who travelled from turkey to greece and then across the balkans. all the women described feeling threatened and unsafe during the journey. many reported that in almost all of the countries they passed through they experienced physical abuse and financial exploitation, being groped or pressured to have sex by smugglers, security staff or other refugees. it is absolutely unacceptable that after living through the horrors of the war in iraq and syria these women have risked everything to find safety for themselves and their children. but from the moment they begin this journey they are again exposed to violence and exploitation, with little support or protection.
in writing. ‒ on this international women’s day, we are sending a very clear message that action must be taken to protect women and girls seeking protection in the eu. violence is an everyday reality for women and girls fleeing conflict. but pressure on asylum systems should never excuse failure to protect women from violence; they should have the same rights as other victims of gender-based violence. every measure and policy to improve the situation of refugees seeking entry to europe must take women into account. these measures must acknowledge the trauma of their journey from their country of origin to europe. the assistance provided to these refugees must be medical and psychological and should last throughout the asylum procedure. women refugees must also have access, as soon as they arrive, to complete information about their rights, whether they concern the asylum procedure or reproductive health. europe must improve the quality of entry offered to refugees, in particular to women and children. the arbitrary retention of women and children is unacceptable. one must also pay attention to the vulnerability of women when deciding to send a refugee back to a so-called safe country. a safe country for a man is not always a safe country for a woman.
in writing. ‒ recent research shows that more single men manage to reach the eu to pursue international protection than women and children. women and girls escaping conflicts encounter many forms of gender-based violence whilst traveling towards a host country. it is important to engage in a gender-specific analysis of this issue. the wording of the alternative resolution on ‘the situation of women refugees and asylum seekers in the eu’ would ensure adequate protection for female refugees. whilst working on a dignified and reasonable migration policy it must be recognised that women should benefit from specific aid when they apply for asylum. refugee centres must be adjusted to respect the privacy of women. pregnant women in particular should have easy access to adequate medical care. fighting against human smugglers must be a main priority. it is recognised that some female refugees are sexually abused as payment for illegal smuggling services. the european institutions and member states are called upon to take immediate action against human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it is positive for women and asylum seekers.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which contains many positive proposals e.g. safe and legal routes to the eu for those fleeing conflicts with gender taken into consideration, and that more member states should participate in the eu resettlement programmes. it also reminds us that lgbti people may be subjected to further abuse, that family re-unification is systematically delayed and often violated and that women asylum seekers in detention have been subjected to sexual abuse. however, it then goes too far where e.g. in paragraph 61 it states that employment and housing that matches the needs and abilities of refugee women and girls should be guaranteed by host countries. yes, that is what we would want for everybody, our children as well as refugees, but no member state can guarantee it. the word food appears in one paragraph out of 62 and over 200 recitals and only in the context of food distribution – totally ignoring the fact that in some instances there is no food. yes, we wish for and vote for the good things – as i did, but i am left with a slightly sour taste in my mouth that we ignored certain realties in an effort to deliver a political message.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
mr president, so finally we have it, the proposal to amend the posting of workers directive. president juncker and the commissioner promised us the same pay for the same work in the same place, and this is it. i for one am happy to see it. the directive is 20 years old and during that time there have been many cases before the ecj – the rüffert case, the laval case, the viking case. there has been uncertainty surrounding the provisions of the directive and certain abuses, and while i believe the enforcement directive will deal with some of them, it cannot deal with all. there is still a core issue between article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which guarantees equal treatment and article 56, which guarantees employers’ rights to provide services across borders. article 45 guarantees equal treatment for seasonal and temporary agency workers, for fixed and part-time workers and for men and women, but not for posted workers. in some sectors, such as construction for example, there are wage gaps of 30% and more between local and posted workers, and in countries where posted workers make up a reasonable amount of that sector, posting can and does exercise a downward trend on wages. yes, we need competition between companies, but as the commissioner herself said, that must be based on many different elements. it must be based on productivity and expertise and innovation, on the type and quality of service and not just exclusively on wages. i, like mr casa, commissioner, thank you for your courage in bringing forward this proposal. it is a start.
thank you, commissioner, for the strength of your statement here this evening. we will now allow a change of the guard for commissioner jourová to take her seat for the next report.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the uachtaráin, the annual budget of the ae would be twelve. we are all very much aware of the statements by the commission and we are all very much aware of the fact that there are no clear, clear answers. we are asked to make adjustments to the provisions already included in the necessary schedule. is the government now in control of the choiste an buiséid mar aon le ballstáit? nil dothain airgid ann chun in the political objectives to achieve. and the two of you are not ready to come in now, we're ready to go in and we're ready to go in and we're ready to go in and we're ready to go in. we have made a great effort to ensure that the necessary investment is made in the economy and that jobs are created, especially after the financial crisis in 2007. the mff 2014-2020 has been reduced by eur 85 billion since the programme was launched in august of that year. it's been years, of course, but we've made it a part of our lives, and it's in our hearts to be here. the choice is now taken by the people who are not in the water, but by the workers who are not in the water. the commission and the council have agreed that this is a very important step towards the establishment of a european union, and that it is a good thing that they have done so. the art of fishing is written in fad. they have a bigger saver, an efsi, and they can't be trusted to have them. private investors are not entitled to a benefit from the public service. the financial instrument is being set up to reduce the budgetary burden on the eu budget and a regular review of the budgetary framework is being undertaken.
blue-card question.– mr reul says that it is not perfect. nothing is perfect, but suggesting that we do business with a leader of a country who talks favourably about adolf hitler’s form of government and the structure of it? we do not have perfection, but surely you should have higher standards than dealing with – i reluctantly say – a man like that?
mr president, listening to the debate, i am somewhat bemused because i am thinking that if the european union did not exist, what would be happening regarding the migrants? would individual countries be trying to do a deal with turkey? would the united nations, for all its talk, be offering eur 6 billion to turkey? would the situation be better or worse? i think the answer is worse. so at least the european union deserves credit for trying to solve a problem that is not of its making. we have our sense of values. we want to offer support and succour to those from other areas who are worse off than ourselves. people have spoken about the one for one and criticised it, but at least it is an effort to try and solve the situation. one for one is not like for like. it is legal rather than illegal. it is regular rather than irregular. it is safe rather than dangerous, and i think that must be taken into consideration. 17 march, incidentally, is the irish national holiday, st patrick’s day. he himself was a migrant or a slave coming from wales to ireland. he might inspire the leaders on that day to come up with a good solution. that brings me to the necessity of our borders being rendered safe and controlled, because we cannot have free movement within the european union unless our borders, in wartime or peace time, are fully controlled and i welcome this move. we also have to look at the question of quotas. if member states say that there is a maximum number they can or will take in, then that is going to dictate what we can actually do. we have to be practical, we want to help but i think at least we are moving in the right direction and, without the european union, where would this crisis be? that is a question we have to ask ourselves.
in writing.– i would like to take this opportunity to express my absolute disgust for the proposals that have been put forward by eu leaders as a ‘solution’ for one of the biggest humanitarian crises in recent years. humanitarian crises should be met with humanitarian responses, however, this bartering system for refugees poses only further danger and dehumanisation. by trading away the rights and dignities of some of the world’s most vulnerable people, the eu has sunk to a new low. our obligation to provide access to asylum has been effectively discarded with this deal and, with it, all of our commitments to international human rights law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is a codification dossier. simply put, codification means that they unify fragmented and updated modifications into one instrument, enhancing legal clarity. no substantial changes were made to the codified text. therefore, and specifically because it enhances legal clarity, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ sulphur is naturally present in small quantities in petroleum and coal. sulphur dioxide (so2) has been recognised for decades as a major cause of the ‘acid rain’ and air pollution which affect urban and industrial areas. more recently, it has been recognised that so2 emissions contribute to the formation of secondary inorganic aerosol gases, fine particles which are harmful to human health. directive 93/12/eec, as subsequently amended, is intended to combat emissions of sulphur dioxide, which are one of the causes of acidification and particle formation in the european union (eu), and are one of the factors causing damage to ecosystems, biodiversity and human health. on 12 march 1997 the commission adopted a communication on a community strategy to combat acidification [com(97) 88 final - not published in the official journal]. limiting sulphur emissions from the combustion of certain liquid fuels was recognised as an important element in the strategy. the reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions applies to heavy fuel oils and gas oil (liquid fuels derived from petroleum, including, since directives 1999/32/ec and 2005/33/ec, those used by seagoing ships).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it is positive for the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this directive will be important to reduce the emissions of sulphur dioxide resulting from the combustion of certain types of liquid fuels, thereby reducing the harmful effects of such emissions to our environment and to the global population.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to reduce the amount of sulphur in some liquids.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is a codification dossier. simply put, codification means that they unify fragmented and updated modifications into one instrument, enhancing legal clarity. no substantial changes were made to the codified text. therefore, and specifically because it enhances legal clarity, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ many factors may influence to what extent medicines are available and accessible to the populations of developing countries. numerous important factors come to play to determine price of medicines: taxes and import tariffs, distribution mark—ups, lack of an efficient procurement system, etc. scientific and technological innovation has significantly improved the treatment of human diseases. intellectual property stimulates pharmaceutical companies to invest money to develop and produce new and better medicines. bringing a medicine to market is a long and complex process that is very costly and takes many years to complete. without the prospect of return on their investments, pharmaceutical companies will not allocate large budgets to more research and development. patent protection can lead to higher prices by delaying the supply of cheaper generic alternatives. hence, the argument is often made that patents on medicines restrict access to treatment for citizens in low—income developing countries. however, developing countries are increasingly using patents to protect their innovative companies’ efforts and help them compete more effectively on global markets. the eu seeks to strike the right balance between the need to promote and finance the research of new and better medicines and to ensure that medicines are accessible to those in need.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as did the majority of my colleagues. the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed the proposal in question contains a straightforward codification of the existing texts without any change in their substance. i firmly believe that there is a need to encourage pharmaceutical manufacturers to make pharmaceutical products available at heavily reduced prices in significantly increased volumes by ensuring through this regulation that such products remain on the poorest developing country markets. it is inappropriate for people or companies to redistribute lower priced pharmaceuticals/tiered-priced products into the union. thankfully, this report will provide such security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe this regulation is necessary to condense the other previous pieces of legislation into one regulation. i also believe this regulation is important as it ensures that the poorest developing countries have access to and are supplied with essential pharmaceutical products at highly reduced rates, and therefore price segmentation is necessary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that avoids diverting the trade of certain key medicines.
in writing. ‒ this file concerns an agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information, whereby it seeks to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. the automatic exchange of financial information is crucial to combating tax evasion and exposing any illicit financing. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ following the adoption of council directive 2003/48/ec (the savings directive), and in order to preserve the level playing field of economic operators, the eu signed an agreement with the principality of andorra providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in the directive. the commission adopted on 17 june 2011 a recommendation for a mandate to initiate negotiations with the principality of andorra in order to upgrade the eu’s agreements with those countries in line with international developments and to ensure that those countries continue to apply measures equivalent to those in the eu. the report consents to the conclusion of the agreement. under this proposal, the council is called upon to approve, on behalf of the european union, the amending protocol to the agreement between the european community and the principality of andorra providing for measures equivalent to those laid down in council directive 2003/48/ec on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as the agreement between the eu and andorra represents an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. under the new agreement, the eu and andorra will automatically exchange information on the financial accounts held on their territories by each other’s residents, starting in 2018 for information collected since 1 january 2017. the aim is to address situations where a taxpayer seeks to hide capital representing income or assets for which taxes have not been paid. the agreement aims at ensuring that andorra applies strengthened measures that are equivalent to the eu legal framework and that comply with the procedures for automatic exchange of financial account information promoted by the 2014 oecd global standard. it will also benefit andorra which has recently reformed its domestic tax system with the introduction of personal income taxation for its residents. as a result of the new agreement, tax administrations in the member states and in andorra will be able to: identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned; administer and enforce their tax laws in cross-border situations; assess the likelihood of tax evasion being perpetrated and avoid unnecessary further investigations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe this represents a positive example of the two contracting parties building on their long-standing relationship with respect to mutual assistance in tax matters. this protocol will help to contribute to the improvement of general international tax compliance and is based on the reciprocal automatic exchange of information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that supports upgrading the eu’s agreements with the principality of andorra, and ensuring that the same or equivalent standards to the eu are applied.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the appointment of a new executive director of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) as i have grave concerns with the eiopa. a number of these regulatory bodies were set up after the financial crash, the stated aim being to regulate the financial markets so that another financial crash wouldn’t happen. of course, robust regulation is required but there are critical concerns with these bodies. there is a huge democratic deficit running through these bodies and moreover, a number of legal concerns have been voiced. the bodies have very fragile legal foundations and a number of legal experts have stated that the setting up of such bodies was done outside of the confines of eu treaty law. to explain simply, when an eu body is being set up, you have to first go back to the primary treaties which founded the eu and look at the treaty provisions. if there is no provision in the treaty to set up such an initiative, then it can be declared as ultra vires i.e. being outside of eu law and having no legal foundation. therefore, it was for these reasons that i voted against the appointment of a director as it would inadvertently endorse an undemocratic body.
in writing. ‒ the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) was established in consequence of the reforms to the structure of supervision of the financial sector in the european union. the reform was initiated by the commission, following the recommendations of a committee of wise men, chaired by mr de larosière, and supported by the european council and parliament. before and during the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008, the european parliament called for a move towards more integrated european supervision in order to ensure a true level playing field for all actors at the level of the european union and to reflect the increasing integration of financial markets in the union. as a result, the supervisory framework was strengthened to reduce the risk and severity of future financial crises. eiopa is part of a european system of financial supervisors that comprises three european supervisory authorities, one for the banking sector, one for the securities sector and one for the insurance and occupational pensions sector, as well as the european systemic risk board.
in writing. ‒ i abstained.
mr president, i support this proposal for a directive protecting the rights of children in criminal proceedings. i recognise that this agreement came after nine trilogues and i commend the committee and those involved in the work. given that there are an estimated 1 086 000 children in the eu who have faced criminal justice proceedings, there is clearly a need for a harmonious safeguards to be put in place. it is essential to protect a child throughout the process, ensure a fair trial, and also – and perhaps more importantly – prevent children from reoffending and to foster their social integration in order to avoid further problems down the line. this is of paramount importance and very challenging. finally, i just want to say that i condemn again the egyptian authorities for postponing the trial of ibrahim halawa; we passed a resolution here on this a few weeks ago asking the egyptian authorities to release him. he was arrested over three years ago now, when he was still a minor.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. children require special measures of protection to take account of their particular vulnerability and needs (un crc committee, general comment 10, para 10). this report moved to enhance the rights and protections of children involved in criminal proceedings. approximately 1.09 million children pass through the criminal justice system in europe each year and the procedural safeguards which are afforded to them are often woefully lacking. this report is to be commended for significantly strengthening these legal protections. however, it must be noted that whereas the directive on the right to a lawyer permits suspects or accused persons to waive this right, the original commission proposal prohibited waiver in the case of children. it is disappointing this has been dropped. ensuring that every child gets legal representation would have been an important step forward in ensuring rights are protected.
in writing. ‒ on 16 december 2015, the permanent representatives committee (coreper) approved a compromise text agreed with parliament on a directive on procedural safeguards for children in criminal proceedings. the purpose of the directive is to provide procedural safeguards for children who are suspected or accused of having committed a criminal offence. the directive will be applied to children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings until the conclusion of the proceeding which means the final determination of question. the text agreed with the council is very clear on the definitions, as they have been considered an important element clarifying the scope and the application of this directive, in particular: the definitions of ‘child’, which means a person below the age of 18 years, and that of ‘the holder of parental responsibility’ which means any person having parental responsibility.
in writing. ‒ provisions advance the protection of children so i voted in favour
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of procedural safeguards for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. given that children face 12% of criminal proceedings within the eu every year and that only six member states have specialised units dealing with children in prosecution, i believe it is imperative that there are common minimum standards throughout the eu which protect the rights of children who have been accused in criminal proceedings, specifically the right to a lawyer and that any questioning of a child be audio-visually recorded. i agree that all officials dealing with children in criminal procedures should be given appropriate training, and for these reasons i have voted in favour on the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as this directive asserts that member states need to provide adequate safeguards to children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings, such as the right to information, the right to privacy and the right to a lawyer. this directive is important to ensure that all member states’ criminal justice systems uphold a minimum standard.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to provide children with procedural safeguards when suspected of committing a crime and to provide them with the right to legal aid.
in writing. ‒ while there were some positive aspects to the report, there were a number of provisions which i had particular concerns with, notably own resources. whilst it is recognised that ireland does contribute to the eu budget through the traditional own resources (customs duties) and there is an obligation to do so, this nonetheless does not negate our concerns with how the eu budget expenditure is financed by member states and moreover how the eu budget is allocated each year. whilst my party considers it necessary to reform the system of financing the mff, it considers it imperative that the revision of the forecast of traditional own resources and the budgetary [revenue] of gni balances and vat remains free from political interference and based solely on the latest economic data, thereby providing a greater degree of certainty for both member states and the commission alike in forward planning. in addition, we have a number of concerns with the proposed financial transaction tax, environmental tax, etc. which we believe is intended to strip a member state of their financial competencies, whilst also being mindful of their positive intentions and of how, if used constructively, they could be very progressive.
in writing. ‒ parliament’s resolution on general guidelines for the budget is the starting point of the annual budgetary procedure for parliament. parliament presents its budgetary priorities for 2017 ahead of the spring budgetary trilogue and the adoption of the draft budget by the commission. the report highlights parliament’s political priorities for next year’s budget. it emphasis the following most important elements for the 2017 budget: boosting investments for growth, competitiveness and job creation as well as addressing the challenges of the ongoing migration and refugee crisis. the report stresses that the european union budget has proven to be an essential resource in tackling recent crises and responding to needs that had not been anticipated during negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, such as the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the migration and refugee crisis or geopolitical tensions in countries in europe’s neighbourhood.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on guidelines for the preparation of the 2017 budget. this report is the first step of the annual budgetary procedure in the european parliament. we are sending a political message to the commission. one of the things we ask for is a medium- and long-term political and financial plan to deal with the migration crisis. also we believe that the response to the migrant crisis should not come at the expense of the eu programmes. such eu programmes strengthen the eu economy, enable growth and create jobs. in this context boosting investment is a key priority. i voted against amendment 24 as it called for an increase in the payments made by member states with the highest per capita income. ireland would be one of those countries so i voted against the amendment. we are simply not in a position to pay. i also voted against amendment 32 which calls for ‘a more harmonised and progressive tax regime’ at eu level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe this report provides a good basis for the priorities for the 2017 budget, which should focus on economic growth, job creation and solidarity. the 2017 budget should take into account both the fact that many member states are still recovering from the financial crisis, while at the same time recognising that global threats still present a significant danger to the eu economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which is the first step in outlining parliaments priorities to the commission, such as tackling the migration and refugee crisis, direct provision centres and also long-term and youth unemployment for the 2017 eu budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the interinstitutional agreement on better regulation as it was a missed opportunity to open up the legislative process to scrutiny. after all, consultation, evaluation and transparency are what better regulation should be about, not deregulation which suits only corporate interests. it must be remembered that brussels is second only to washington dc in terms of paid professionals attempting to either influence public policy or political decisions. the eu capital has an estimated 30 000 lobbyists. this is not accidental; it is a concerted effort to retain power and to remove political and economic decisions from democratic debate and influence and thus from the hands of citizens. in a modern democracy, there is no reason why the decision-making process cannot be both efficient and transparent. that is the crux of the issue: the eu is fundamentally undemocratic and it is not concerned with efficiency, it is deregulation that they are concerned with, and efficiency is used to conceal the agenda of financial deregulation.
in writing. ‒ the european commission published on 19 may 2015 its better regulation package, including the draft proposal for an interinstitutional agreement (iia) on better regulation (also referred to as the iia on better lawmaking). this iia will replace the existing 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better lawmaking and the 2005 interinstitutional common approach to impact assessment, and will oversee working practices between the council, the european parliament and the commission. mr verhofstadt was mandated to conduct the negotiations, working in close cooperation with juri and afco. negotiations between the council, commission and ep on the iia were completed in december 2015, and endorsed politically by the conference of presidents on 16 december. the agreement covers three main areas: better regulation; interinstitutional relations; and legislative processes, including programming and delegated and implementing acts. in the draft report, the epp rapporteur, danuta hübner, recommends the approval of the draft interinstitutional agreement and of the related joint declaration. the draft report also contains an appreciation of some of the main provisions of the new iia, calls for an examination of the extent to which amendments or interpretations of the rules of procedure are necessary for the implementation of the agreement and points to a number of issues where further follow-up is needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. the iia will improve the quality of european law-making. it calls for increased negotiations between the institutions and for the commission to explain and justify its choice of legal basis and compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality when proposing legislative instruments. it also promotes transparency between parliament, the council and the commission in proposing legislation by contributing better law-making tools such as impact assessments and appropriate handling of trilogues. increased transparency amongst the institutions will lead to a more coordinated legal system within the union and also makes the implementation of european law easier for the governments and judicial systems of the member states. the iia calls upon member states to communicate clearly to their citizens when transposing union legislation and distinguish additions that are in no way related to union legislation as to avoid ‘gold-plating’, leading to greater harmonisation between the institutions and the citizens of the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe this provides a good basis for developing a more open and transparent relationship between the institutions. this report also promotes the better lawmaking agenda which should be a vital part of the eu institutions’ approach to legislation in the coming years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for better regulation and inter-institutional dialogue between the european institutions in the decision and law-making process.
in writing. ‒ today’s vote is a positive signal. it is heartening to see a majority of parliament see past big tobacco’s well-endowed lobby tactics that this deal has become a travesty. as the commission (ec) contemplates a possible extension of the deal, we are facing litigious retaliation from philip morris, with an eu court challenge against the eu’s review of the tobacco products directive. and i find it astonishing that the ec maintains contact with its legal adversary on this very topic. i personally know of, and believe in, the commissioner for health’s commitment to fight the scourge of an industry whose product kills its customers but i very much fear that the officialdom in charge of trade policy will once again win the day. member states and the ec have effectively outsourced key aspects smuggling and counterfeiting customs control to the industry itself, as part of a legal settlement over its misdemeanours, without subjecting the industry’s findings, which match its vested interests, to independent laboratory assessment. public bodies need to be put back in charge of crucial aspects of public policy, and for these companies to be subjected to the same set of rules, not to special deals dating back to when they bought themselves out of court.
in writing. ‒ i supported a strong call from the parliament to the european commission not to renew or extend the agreement with philip morris international (pmi) beyond its current expiry date. i voted to say that the only guiding factor when considering a possible extension of agreements with the tobacco industry should be public health considerations. i also supported the call to ask the commission to prioritise the combined use of the tobacco products directive of 2014 and the who protocol which foresee track and trace and introduce security features provisions facilitating law enforcement. apart from anything else pmi is suing the eu over the 2014 tobacco products directive including its provisions on security and the tracking and tracing of illegal tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ for this tobacco agreement, i voted to support resolutions that stated clearly that the commission should not renew, extend or renegotiate the agreement with phillips morris international (pmi) beyond its current date of expiry. i believe that this agreement is in contradiction with recent tobacco legislation that the eu has passed.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the extension of an agreement with philip morris international.
mr president, i hope to visit eritrea in the coming weeks and months with an irish ngo, vita, which is involved in food security and development. i hope to take to eritrea the message of the resolution, which hopefully will be passed tomorrow by my colleagues. we need to ensure human rights are defended in a circumstance where there is such corruption in eritrea, but we also need to ensure that, where eu citizens’ finances are actually funding eritrea, that it is for the people of eritrea, to the benefit of them and nobody else, that the funding is actually used. i believe the strong message to the minister, to the commission, to the presidency and to the council is that there must be conditionality on the funding that we, as eu citizens, put into eritrea and other parts of the developing world – conditionality in terms of human rights to make sure that the government there accepts our bona fides. i agree with everyone in terms of the comprehensive motion which has been put. i also accept that there is a need to make progress on the case of mr dawit isaak in terms of his detention there, and i reiterate the need to ensure that the eu funding that goes into eritrea must be to the benefit of the people of eritrea and nobody else.
mr president, first of all, it is important that we are having this debate, and i want to acknowledge – and i hope everyone will support me in this – stuart kenworthy, phil williams, nick dobrik and craig millward. i think we should say that, of all of the people who have lobbied me in this house, they did it with supreme effectiveness and with great dignity and they should not have had to do it. i think if nothing else we should acknowledge their work and their diligence and their incredible patience as victims to try and get their voices heard. i was hugely impressed with them. i was watching television on sunday night at home and a british drama called the midwife is showing an episode set in that era with children being born with thalidomide effects. it was actually very shocking because it was very real, and i know people who are living survivors with thalidomide. we know that there are responsibilities on the german government, the irish government – all governments where this occurred – to help, and i am not sure what tonight’s debate will achieve, except this: we have a sympathetic commissioner, an engaged parliament and we have a moral responsibility and duty not to let this rest. it is not a big amount of money, but the principle of looking after these victims is already established. for their dignity and their patience, let us not give up after this debate but keep going on this campaign.
mr president, like so much else that passes through this house, this is us blathering on in righteous tones about an issue while, at the same time, the reality of what is actually happening on the same issue is the total opposite. over eight years ago, jonathan sugarman resigned from the plum job of risk manager that he then held with unicredit bank ireland. in his own words: ‘i did that in order not to incriminate myself.’ jonathan’s job entailed checking and signing off on the liquidity of the bank at the end of each day’s trading. what he says he found, day after day, was that the bank was short of that figure, not just by a few percentage points but by up to 40 times the accepted margin. as per the law, he told the bank and told the regulator. the bank told him to shut up. the regulator ignored him. the central bank, when it eventually got around to an investigation of sorts, told him they could guarantee neither his anonymity nor his immunity. things are so bad he was not even called to give evidence at the recent banking inquiry. we can talk all we want in here, but i await the day we actually do something about it, when it is those who have had the whistle blown on them who have something to fear, rather than those who blow that whistle.
mr president, i echo my colleagues’ concerns on the zika virus and the eu must support the scientific research to conclusively establish the link between the zika virus and microcephaly, but we must also be cognisant, as has been said earlier, of the fact that simply telling women to delay pregnancy is not good enough. many of these countries deny women access to information on their reproductive rights and concrete steps must be taken so that women have the information, support and services they require to exercise their right to determine whether and when they become pregnant. as the un human rights chief said: ‘in situations where sexual violence is rampant and sexual and reproductive health services are criminalised, efforts to halt this crisis will not be enhanced by placing the focus on advising women and girls not to become pregnant.’ so while i welcome the eu funding of eur 10 million, i believe we must also proactively support those organisations which are trying to help women in these regions.
mr president, i would like to thank mr gualtieri for his report. i just want to make three brief points to the commissioner. banking union is crucial for jobs and growth, especially across the eurozone. we need to have a strong banking union. where we need to retrofit the project and improve the project, we should do that. i also believe that the commission is right to now initiate a review. where changes need to occur, we should be honest enough to admit those changes need to occur. i do not think we should do it in a partisan way. we have had to do this very quickly. it has been an extraordinary project – the mandate of the previous parliament – but we should always be prepared to change what we have if it is not working. my final remark is this, commissioner: it is all about the lending environment. we see too many banks still not in a position to lend to sme growth and development across europe and across the eurozone especially. it is important that we keep capital reserves, that the new architecture on ssm is correct, and that the new stress tests are right, but we have to make sure that the final high street banks actually start delivering real growth to the european economy. otherwise, we are not going to see progress.
mr president, this week in ireland, our central bank destroyed eur 500 million, the legacy of being forced to bail out two non-systemic banks and also the legacy of the fact that what we are doing here is trying to erect pillars that should have been put in place when the euro currency was actually launched back in 1999. last year we similarly destroyed eur 2 billion, in 2014 eur 1 billion, and in 2011 eur 3 billion: a total of eur 6 billion. the bank is still holding eur 25 billion awaiting the same fate. i want to know what the council, the commission and the ecb will do to apply these new rules retrospectively and save ireland and the irish people from this obscenity – this destruction of eur 31 billion. this is the fifth time i have tried to get an answer about this. can the commission please listen? stop chatting among yourselves and show a bit of bloody respect for the people who get elected here, rather than looking at your coffee and looking at the internet while we are talking to you! answer the question: what are you going to do to retrospectively help ireland, which is being forced eventually to burn eur 31 billion? it may not be a lot in your economy, but it is a damn large amount of money in our economy, and there are people hungry because of it. so answer the question and respect my mandate and everyone else’s please.
the president, president kabila and the current government have been in power since 2001 and it seems that they have been waiting for a long time to do so. gan dabht ar bith, that's the political teannas of the country. it's easy to get lost in the dark. cafithimid gach brú a chur air chun glacadh le bunreacht na tíre agus go mbeadh olltoghchán ann i mí na samhna in the year without. cafithimid gach brú a chur air chun glacadh le bunreacht na tíre agus go mbeadh olltoghchán ann i mí in the year without. cafithimid gach brú a chur air chun glacadh le bunreacht in the year without. if you're not, you can't call me. you should go to the village of midhallathach in chongó. freisin, there are so many things in this country that nobody can say that the citizens are so happy about it. as a local scoir, i should represent the united nations a chearta an duine to athbhunu sa tír seo chomh maith.
in writing. ‒ against the current background the european commission proposes to offer a temporary, unilateral duty free tariff rate quota of 35 000 tonnes annually for tunisia’s exports of olive oil to the union, under the form of autonomous trade measure. such quota will be made available for a period of two years, from 1 january 2016 until 31 december 2017. this additional volume will be opened once the existing duty-free tariff rate quota of 56 700 tonnes, enshrined in the agreement, is exhausted. olive oil is tunisia’s main agricultural export to the eu, and the olive oil industry is an important part of the country’s economy, providing direct and indirect employment to more than one million people and representing one-fifth of the country’s total agricultural employment.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of my colleague, marielle de sarnez’ report on introducing emergency autonomous trade measures for tunisia. tunisia has suffered severe damage to its economy and especially to its tourism sector. given the long history of cooperation and trade between tunisia and the european union, the importation into the union of untreated olive oil originating in tunisia (tunisia’s largest export) via an autonomous trade measure would be mutually beneficial for both parties to the agreement. it would boost economic ties to tunisia and enhances its cooperation with the european union. i also support the agreement clause which allows the commission to suspend the measure should tunisia fail to comply with any of its stipulations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to promote democracy in tunisia by boosting economic development.
in writing. ‒ this report sets out a new legal framework for veterinary medicines for authorisation, manufacturing, drug safety and their use. the aim of the report is to strengthen the commission proposal. this report calls for the ban on prophylactic use of veterinary medicines which contain antimicrobials (albeit with some exceptions) which is an important move forward in combatting antimicrobial resistance. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i welcome today’s vote in the european parliament to usher in tighter controls and restrictions on the administration of antibiotics to farm animals. we cannot allow cost-cutting business as usual to carry on in large-scale, industrial farming. increased resistance to the most common antibiotics could bring us back to the dark ages of medicine, when we were at the mercy of infectious diseases and the chances of surviving surgery were scant. this is not an overstatement. the world health organisation has been compiling alarming data on the development of multi-drug resistant superbugs that pose severe public health risks on a global scale. i am glad we managed to bring a majority of meps on board to make progress on this critical issue. we cannot afford to allow the indiscriminate use of antibiotics, which are often sold online and end up on our plates. these heightened threats to human health and life make the use of medication to make up for shoddy animal husbandry absolutely unacceptable. we certainly need to establish classes of antimicrobials which are critical for human treatment and must be off-limits for other purposes. i very much hope that the member states’ governments will be similarly minded, and refrain from diluting the agreement we reached today.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because it will help prevent the misuse and overuse of antibiotics on animals which could then potentially enter the human supply chain. the report covers, amongst other things: routine prophylactic use of antimicrobials being banned and metaphylactic use restricted; and the data protection period of technical documentation for new antibiotics set at 14 years with the possibility of prolongation however limited. online sale of antimicrobials, psychotropics and vaccines is not allowed. it will also result in harmonisation of the requirement for a veterinary prescription and recognition of prescriptions across member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the regulation after having worked on the file over a number of months. firstly, i believe it will bring more certainty to the eu regulatory environment for veterinary medicines compared to the current situation where legislation is fragmented across different areas. this regulation will also help increase the availability of veterinary medicinal products by removing red tape and allowing for the harmonisation of the summaries of product characteristics. this will benefit originator and generic manufacturers which will hopefully lead to greater availability and more competitive prices. i supported reducing the commission’s proposal for the protection of technical documentation for the first marketing authorisation by originator drug companies from 18 years to 14 years. in addition to that, i was very happy to note that the regulation clearly aims at combating anti-microbial resistance which is of particular concern to health professionals. i was also very happy that salmon will be contained within the scope of the regulation. finally, i was happy to support the amendments which called for the continuity of the use of homeopathy in animals. this contributes to the reduction of the use of antibiotics and allows for consumers to continue using these practices.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that aims to ban preventative use of antibiotics and restrictions of their use in the treatment of animals, while also supporting innovation in this sector.
the president was also asked to support the report and to ensure that laws were adopted. i must say, having been involved with the veterinary profession for many years, i have great admiration for them. i think they are a sector of society that doesn't get enough praise for their good work and, particularly here in europe where we have a very good name, as mr jahr pointed out, of traceability of our food products from farm to fork. it is the veterinary profession that are the guardians of that particular great image which we have and want to preserve. for that reason, the proposals before us today are very appropriate; we want to ensure that there is full compliance with the rules and, again as mr jahr pointed out, the one danger is that the sale over the internet may not always be what we would like it to be, and that needs to be looked at very carefully to preserve the good name of the products, but also of the profession which, as i said, is exemplary.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned amongst other things with whether the european parliament agrees with veterinary authorisation fees (which go to the ema agency) being decided by co-decision or by implementing acts. i am in favour of co-decision where the european parliament has a say and can block decisions which have been decided behind closed doors between the council and the commission, with no transparency or democratic accountability. on a separate but related point, the democratic deficit which permeates the eu is a matter that urgently needs to be addressed. the lack of transparency and accountability in the legislative process has led to citizens losing trust, faith and confidence in the eu. moreover, it is difficult to disagree with the contention that ireland and indeed all national parliaments have been reduced to a situation where national parliaments act largely as a rubber stamp for measures implementing laws signed up to by government ministers in brussels. the entire legislative framework within the eu is in urgent need of radical reform.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote because following the proposal which will repeal and replace the directive on veterinary medicinal products, the regulation on the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency must be amended to take account of the fact that centralised marketing authorisation for veterinary products is being decoupled from that for medicines for humans. this proposal, within the package, is not meant to be a thorough review of the rules. it is only meant to delete every reference to veterinary medicines from the old, all-inclusive regulation and to ‘lisbonise’ it (compulsory).
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support, along with my alde colleagues, the amendments to this file. it was important to amend this regulation considering the proposal by the commission on veterinary medicinal products which now consolidates the regulation on veterinary medicines into one regulation rather than being fragmented across a number. the new regulation will thus cover all routes granting marketing authorisations for veterinary medicinal products in the union. the reason for this modification, and why i supported it, was because the needs of the veterinary sector differ substantially from those of the human sector in relation to medicines. in the veterinary sector there are many different animal species, which creates both a fragmented market and the need for major investments in order to extend the authorisation of medicines existing for one animal species to another. within the text, i was happy that the level and structure of the fees payable to the european medicines agency will not be set via implementing acts as the commission intended but through co-decision, which will allow the parliament to have clear oversight into the budgetary expenses of the ema. in addition, i was happy that there will be annual assessments of antimicrobial resistance in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that improves the marketing authorisation procedure for veterinary medicinal products, decoupling it from medicines for humans.
the president was very interested in the report and we had no role to play in all the votes that were cast. taobh amuigh de cheann amháin a bhí agatsa nó nach raibh a fhios agat an raibh daoine i bhfabhar nó i gcoinne vote read 2, alt 26. (the vote was not taken by the majority of the members of the house of representatives) therefore, it seems to me that there is no right and only one way. we should have evidence at the end of the day how the vote would be done in each report, especially if the vote amounted to something that was not in the report, and we should look at it from the outside. taobh amuigh sin, is an important subject is that. i was put on the dpr. it's not over yet, but i hope we can talk about it in the next few months.
mr president, sorry, i am making no criticism of you, none whatsoever. but i think this is something that we should look at from the point of view of the record, for those who want to see how we voted.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as it was unbalanced, with a strong focus on public—private enterprise, and not enough emphasis was placed on data protection or privacy protection. the fact that the resolution is 9 pages long with 45 paragraphs and has only 5 fleeting references to data protection means that it is completely big—business oriented. the few references to data protection in the resolution are taken completely from the point of view of businesses rather than the point of view of the user or consumer, saying that data protection is in the interest of big data companies as creating trust can foster growth. the report talks about having default privacy models built in to operating systems for the benefit of fast development of companies rather than for users. the report also assures businesses that data protection and opportunities for the integrated use of data ‘are not mutually exclusive’. this clearly is not written in favour of users. it was for these reasons that i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ a thriving data-driven economy will contribute to the well-being of citizens as well as to socio-economic progress through new business opportunities and through more innovative public services. it will flourish in a european digital single market governed by modern and innovative rules. the envisaged actions, once implemented, will result in accelerated innovation, productivity growth and increased competitiveness in data across the whole economy as well as on the global market with europe as a key player.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution ‘towards a thriving data-driven economy’. the commission’s 2014 strategy on big data supports the transition towards a data-driven economy in europe, which will be core to the digital single market, and aims to stimulate research and innovation on data, leading to more business opportunities and an increased availability of knowledge and capital – in particular for smes – across europe. the big data market has huge potential with an expected growth rate up to 2017 that is six times faster than in the overall ict market, possibly 3.75 million new jobs by 2017 and 1.9 % in additional gdp growth by 2020. this rapidly growing sector will need advanced, digitally skilled workers, an area in which the eu workforce is currently lacking. education and training will therefore be crucial. also hugely important will be improved investment in broadband services, particularly in rural areas, so that all eu regions and citizens can benefit from this burgeoning sector. that is why i supported the amendment calling for improved support and incentives for cooperative and municipal investments in broadband infrastructure, which will also facilitate broadband coverage in rural areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with big data and encourages new research and development, whilst also encouraging closing the skills gap.
mr president, once again i was fully supportive of this motion of resolution submitted by my own group, the european people’s party, in relation to the current situation in eritrea, the calls on the eritrean authorities to release all political prisoners, reform and shorten national service obligations, stop all forced evictions and demolitions, and expand the provision of social housing. i would like to stress the need for eritrea to respect and implement the right to education without question, the inobservance of which is causing so many young eritreans to flee. sustainable peace, development and prosperity cannot exist without respect for human rights. in conjunction with my party, i would like to emphasise a deep concern at the lack of freedom of expression and the continued existence of political prisoners held in violation of the principles of the rule of law. i fully support the demand stipulating the immediate release of swedish/eritrean journalist, dawit isaak, as a matter of urgency, who has been imprisoned under harsh conditions and without trial since september 2001.
in writing. ‒ the epp group has repeatedly emphasised that democratic governance, the building of transparent and inclusive institutions and the protection of human rights should be the basis of an eventual national indicative programme (nip) under the 11th european development fund (edf) for eritrea. the european commission did not take this into account when proposing the nip for eritrea as the programme focuses on energy and public administration efficiency in the energy sector.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian situation in eritrea has become a growing concern for the european union. the eu has a vested interest in a stabilised eritrea and does not wish to see the population of the region suffer any further. a sizeable proportion of the eritrean population has fled as a result of actions of the eritrean government in its active disregard for human rights or due to the lack of protection it has provided to its citizens. it is imperative that the eritrean government implement as many measures as possible to guarantee the basic human rights of its citizens. particularly worrying are reports which claim that the government commits widespread extrajudicial killing, torture, arbitrary detention and discrimination. with all this in mind, and considering the vast protection provided by several international human rights instruments such as the universal declaration of human rights and the international covenant on civil and political rights, i support the european parliament’s motion for a resolution on the situation in eritrea.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution. people are fleeing eritrea due to its oppressive regime. the eu must support the eritrean people.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution, which examines the political and human rights situation in eritrea.
the uachtaráin, i voted for my group in all the votes here outside of the head of the single august is without leasú 17d sea bathine se le ecat agus mar sin de agus os rud is gur tír neodrach i éire, staonamar sa vote sin. but outside of sin, i'm breaking the laws at this point. in particular, i would like to support the view of the committee on foreign affairs (afet) that political parties in macedonia must assume their respective responsibilities and ensure without delay the full, constructive and timely implementation of all their commitments, in a sustainable and negotiated manner, including their commitment to strengthen good neighbourly relations in order to maintain the positive recommendation to open eu membership negotiations. this is a very important point. i also agree with afet's demands to engage in constructive political dialogue, particularly in preparation for the elections on 5 june 2016, which are going to be critical for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. ‒ i supported this because parliament has highlighted that the political crises in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has shown the deficiency of an effective system of checks and balances in the institutions and the necessity to increase transparency and public accountability including adequate mechanisms of oversight of the main services and internal structures. only the full implementation of the pržino political agreement is a way out of the political stalemate. the parliament underlines the necessity to prepare the elections to the highest international standards, including ensuring free and fair election procedures and enhancing media freedom, while expressing concern about the slow pace of the audit of the voters’ list and media reform.
in writing. ‒ macedonia has been a candidate country for eu membership since december 2005. its integration process has been somewhat stalled in recent years, however. while macedonia’s membership has been backed by the european parliament and the commission, the council has blocked its progression as a result of the naming conflict with greece. the recent political crisis in macedonia which came about as a result of a wire—tapping scandal and the intimidating of journalists is another factor in macedonia’s lack of progression in eu membership. this has caused considerable tension in the run up to parliamentary elections this june. i support this report’s reiteration that in order to ensure continuity of support to the macedonian progress towards eu membership, macedonia must prepare these elections to the highest international standards and support the right to freedom of speech while also improve its overall policy alignment with those of the eu’s.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution on the 2015 report. i agree with the resolution, but abstained on amendment 17 as ireland is a neutral country.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is necessary to maintain adequate checks and balances together with increased transparency over internal structures.
i would like to reiterate that my group voted in favour of all the amendments relating to the montenegrins and that i think we should not have had to go through the procedure without the support of all the members. freisin caithfimid a ra go bhfuil an dul chun cinn ag montenegrö ar this slite agus hoped that it would become a full member state of the european union at some time in the near future. but at the same time, it is good to be told that there are countries that want to join the union when there are countries that want to leave the union. but at the same time there are many things to do with them, especially when it comes to civil rights and human rights like foreigners against women. there are no laws without them, and they can't be enforced, so they have to be enforced. freisin beschäftigung, go háirithe in young people agus troid i gcoinne an bhochtanais, ach is féidir linn help them, agus la éigin go luath, le cúnamh dé, will be a member state of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report in which the parliament welcomes the progress reached in the accession negotiations with montenegro, and stresses that overall progress in the negotiations depends on the progress in the implementation of the rule of law and visible track record.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the progress report for 2015 on montenegro. i welcome the steps forward made by the country however i do note that there are still problems to be solved in different sectors which need to be overcome. although montenegro is the most advanced western balkans country on its way to european union membership, there is much still to be done within the country to ensure that democratic principles are promoted and guaranteed. the judiciary, freedom of media, the fight against corruption, weak civil society, are all still topics of concern. the highly polarised political scene is a challenge for both the government and the opposition. transparent, free and fair next parliamentary elections are crucial for the future democratic development of the country. thankfully, all of these concerns were strongly outlined within the resolution and sends a clear message that any accession of montenegro into the eu must be based on the liberal democratic principles.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the progress reached in the accession negotiations with montenegro.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution to encourage a fair and level playing field to combat corruption and to strengthen core democratic principles.
mr president, i compliment you on the efficient manner in which you chaired today’s proceedings, also occasionally with a little bit of humour. humour is not something we associate with banks, and certainly there was very little to be humorous or joyous about in relation to how the banks conducted themselves prior to, and during, the economic recession. none more so than in my own country. i am absolutely delighted that the european union is taking charge of the supervision of the banks and that we have stress tests, etc., and rules applying across the european union because, in a small country like ireland, it is too easy to be palsy-walsy – as we saw – and this can lead to many malpractices. now we have an opportunity to create a real union, for people to see that our banks are working efficiently and that the taxpayer will not be having to pick up the pieces. i hope we never again have to listen to the phrase ‘too big to fail’ when it comes to banks. they will all have to toe the line and do so properly, in accordance with the european union’s rules, which would apply to the 28 member states.
in writing. ‒ the intention behind this new union and the report was supposedly to break the link between banks and sovereigns so as to avoid future taxpayer-financed bailouts (like those that were given to the banks between 2009-11). today, eight years into the crisis, there is still no meaningful regulation at either eu level or in ireland which effectively breaks up the ‘too-big-to-fail’ banks and downsizes them. the european banking sector and the irish banking sector are as concentrated and interconnected as ever. none of these problems were addressed in gualtieri’s annual report. nor does the report address mario draghi’s obvious conflict of interest. as the banking union has been placed under the ecb, draghi has become the eu’s chief bank supervisor. at the same time he is member of the private g30 club of top executives from the world’s biggest banks. the annual report, which is the first of its kind, has two purposes: 1) to congratulate and rubberstamp the birth of a new bogus european institution; 2) to prepare parliament’s position in the upcoming negotiations on the third and final pillar of the union, a european deposit insurance scheme. it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my group, fully supported the annual report on the banking union. this report, which follows up on the implementation and evolution of financial supervision in the eu, the so-called banking union, is paramount to monitor the harmonisation of supervisory tools at eu level. this will help to ensure that the financial crisis of 2008 will not be replicated by strengthening capital requirements and depositor protection and ultimately establishing a single supervisory mechanism (ssm) and a single resolution mechanism (srm) for the euro area. i was happy to support the regulatory induced process of increasing banks’ capital and reducing leverage, but i was also glad that the report pointed to the possible negative effects this may have on lending. concerning the srm, thankfully the report called for the rapid drawing-up of banks’ resolution plans and minimum requirements for assets to be bailed-in (so-called mrel, minimum requirements for eligible liabilities) in a possible bank resolution to shield against negative effects on the real economy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe that a strong banking union is crucial for jobs and growth in the eurozone. it is right that we have a review of the banking union measures already put in place and make changes if necessary. ultimately, this is all about the lending environment. too many banks are still not in a position to lend properly to businesses and smes. any further development of our banking union needs to put this at the forefront of the agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report on the banking union welcoming the establishment of the single resolution mechanism, and the important role of the single supervisory mechanism.
mr president, i attended a meeting on monday night with the commissioner for agriculture, mr hogan, i am here today, and there is no doubt about it: there is actually a growing awareness of the crisis, but there are no solutions for the crisis. so i have three questions for commissioner hahn to answer. firstly, is the agricultural sector – we are talking about the pig sector now, but i refer to the agricultural sector in general – carrying the can for the rest of europe on the russian bans? secondly, what prospects are there, short-term, medium-term and long-term, for growing our markets outside the european union? thirdly, what efforts are being made to grow our sales within europe and indeed abroad, especially in view of what the previous speaker said about moves to turn people off eating meat because of all sorts of strange contradictory surveys that come out almost daily?
mr president, i would like to thank my colleagues for this very important debate. the correspondence i received on this has been quite interesting. there has been quite a large lobby to ban glyphosate, and we respect those who emailed us in that regard. but in recent days i have been getting emails from individual farmers – and i welcome those emails – not from the farm organisations, but from individual farmers – talking to me about how vital glyphosate is for them when they are practising conservation agriculture and trying to reduce their carbon footprint in a sustainable way that is positive for the environment. i think it is very easy to call for a ban on the chemical, because chemicals raise concerns among our citizens. we need to reflect on exactly what is before us here. there are two, apparently different, scientific assessments. but in fact one – the efsa position – looks at the risks, while the international agency for research on cancer (iarc) looks at the hazards. we need to differentiate between both of those. the position of our group – the epp – is, in my view, very measured. we very much want to make sure the products are safe, but we do not want an outright ban. we support re-registration of this product, but not for 15 years. we want actions taken if there is, in the future, evidence where there are concerns about it. let us not ignore the voices that talk to us, but let us listen to all of the voices that lobby on this important issue.
madam president, in my speech i would like to focus on the marine environment and the significant potential it has to benefit and support rural communities. it should be promoted to benefit those communities. in tonight’s debate we have focused on fishing and also the benefits for those communities, but i wish to emphasise these, and i know the commissioner will agree with me because i met him last year at a very significant conference in cork on the potential of the blue economy and the strong growth figures that we have seen in ireland in the blue economy. it has continued to outperform the national economy, with rates of about 8% up to the year 2014, which exceeds growth in the national economy, and for every eur 100 turnover created from the ocean economy there is eur 75 to 80 interlinking in the surrounding economy. so it is of enormous potential both in terms of tourism, energy creation, fishing and fish processing, and research and innovation, and i would urge the commissioner, who i know is committed to this, to promote the blue economy and its very valuable potential for supporting the rural regions in our communities.
madam president, not for the first time i want to talk about trade here in the chamber and, in particular, the issue of a trade agreement with mercosur. i know that voices were raised in the agriculture council today in luxembourg. 23 member states are really concerned about the tactics of the commission – about their potential opening offer to mercosur, particularly regarding sensitive products, including beef, but also applying to poultry and, indeed, pig meat. there are real concerns at this time, when agriculture across europe is in a very difficult position, that the commission would be so willing to open the gates to importation of beef and cause real problems for rural parts of the european union, and farmers in particular. as voices were raised around the agriculture council meeting this morning, i wanted to add my voice. i know other colleagues on the agriculture committee would share concerns here and once again warn the commission not to sacrifice agriculture for other sectors of the economy.
mr president, there are five things that the commissioner can do. take on the large multiples in the retail sector, whose greed has continually eroded the farmers’ share of the retail price in the last few years. milk prices have dropped in the region of 40% in the last 18 months and the consumer has not seen the benefit, yet the commission sees no need for regulatory action in its weak response to its report on unfair trading. take on the cartels and the primary processing sector. we are talking about a crisis in agriculture and how there is no money for farmers, but there is still eur 38 million for larry goodman to buy himself a new private jet. where did that money come from? out of the farmers’ pockets. examine the farmer input sectors and defend our interests in ttip. many studies have shown that agriculture will be the main loser in this trade agreement despite some of the claims about dairy exports. reject the mercosur deal. the trade deal with the south american countries will completely undermine the viability of european agriculture. finally, while people are paying back bank debts, they cannot afford to pay decent money for food. change that and there will be more money to buy food.
mr president, i want to thank the chair of the committee on agriculture and rural development for this debate here this morning, and thank the commissioner for his comments. clearly this crisis in the agriculture sector is much deeper and more prolonged than the commission had forecast or than we would desire, so it is important that we hear from members, particularly what is happening in each member state, because of our differences. but there is one clear message, and i am not sure whether many farmers are listening to the debate here in the chamber – hands up if you are – but that is that the voice of farmers is, i think, not being heard loud and clear, because there are fewer of them. consumers – and we are all consumers in this chamber – are benefiting to some extent from the crisis in the agricultural sector with cheaper food, but perhaps others along the supply chain are benefiting much more. so on question 3, could the commissioner say a bit more about what the commission is going to do on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain? i hope it is going to do something concrete and effective. can i also, commissioner, say that implementing the measures that you have brought forward is important, but measuring their impact is even more important? and can i ask you a question on article 222? following on from mr dantin’s comments, do you really think that it can be effective if only one or two member states apply voluntary production cuts, and can you explain how that will and can be funded? my last point relates to costs. we need to do something to tackle the high cost of production in european – including irish – agriculture.
mr president, we are in an almost unique situation here in plenary today, because speakers from across every political group, from every country, have had basically the same message. that message, commissioner, is that you are failing, and the commission is failing, to address the farm income crisis that we have. while i welcome the fact that we have moved from a situation where the commission was failing to acknowledge that there was a crisis at all to at least some measures being put in place, it is quite clear from listening to the remarks of speakers across the board today that those measures do not go far enough. i know you asked this morning, commissioner, for your package to be given time and for us to give you time, but the difficulty is that many of the farmers who we are dealing with on a daily and weekly basis simply do not have the luxury of time. what they need is for the packages already in place to be strengthened. i am of the firm belief that, for example, intervention prices will have to be increased above the cost of production. why delay any longer? why not do it? i would like to reiterate the points which have been made in relation to the trade deals with mercosur… (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we have a dilemma here, unfortunately. the long-term prospects, as outlined by the commissioner, seem to be quite good, with a growing population meaning greater demand for food. also, of course, the commissioner is trying to open up new markets, which is highly commendable. but for farmers there is a small element of ‘live, horse and you’ll get grass’ about this, because a short-term crisis could put a lot of them out of business. so that is why we have to try and come up with short-term solutions. i know the commission has done an awful lot (eur 500 million last year, etc.), but is there room for more in the short term? the situation, especially in my country, has been exacerbated by horribly bad weather and the threat of brexit, so they need help now. is there an opportunity, for instance, to have a short-term intervention for three or four months and then revert to the status quo? i think we need to look at short-term measures to get the farmers over the crisis right now.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the re-codification of the council regulation ‘market access regulation’ which regulates the importation of products from acp countries. this is a temporary measure which provides duty- and quota-free access to the eu market for products from acp countries before the wto-compatible economic partnership agreements, october 2016. the codification is necessary to provide transparency and accessibility to the eu legislation. the amendment of article 3(4) would enable the commission to adopt delegated acts concerning the regime relevant to products from south africa, once provisions of the tdca have superseded those of the epa.
in writing. – the recast is on an issue concerning the economic partnership agreements (epas) with acp countries. i doubt whether the epas are really having positive effects on acp countries. i abstained as a result.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the report of my colleague, jarosław wałęsa, which proposes a regulation for the arrangement of products originating in certain states which are part of the african, caribbean and pacific (acp) group of states. such a regulation would ensure transparency, clarity and simplification of eu legislation after an original legal instrument has been amended numerous times. the original legal instrument, council regulation (ec) no 152872007, or the market access regulation (mar) is a temporary instrument which provides duty-free, quota-free access to the eu market for products originating in non-ldc acp countries. codification is therefore essential to ensure clarity and readability of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution as the regulation will now supersede the various acts incorporated in it, allowing the preservation of the regulation’s contents whilst being codified
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of recasting existing legislation surrounding market access regulation for products originating in certain african, caribbean and pacific states that will render the legislation more accessible and reader friendly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this new protocol which should strengthen the cooperation between the european union and greenland. moreover, it aims to promote the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and a responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in greenland’s fishing zone. it is a multi-species agreement that foresees fishing opportunities for various species. the report contained some very positive provisions such as an emphasis on sustainable fishing practices having to be promoted in order to safeguard long-term productivity. there was a specific focus on the collapse of cod stocks in previous years, which was much needed and welcomed. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ greenland, covered under the treaty on the functioning of the european union, is economically dependent on its fishery sector. the consequences of climate and environment issues must be recognised and fishing opportunities must conform to relevant conservation initiatives. this protocol aims to provide eur 17 799 978 per year over a five-year period. this would foster cooperation between the european union and greenland, ensuring a sustainable fisheries policy. this agreement covers a range of marine species. the use of local labour and firms should be a condition for the provision of fishing licences.
in writing. – i voted in favour. overall positive.
in writing. ‒ i supported the continuation of the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community on the one hand and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland on the other as it strengthens cooperation between the union and greenland. it also promotes a partnership framework in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the greenlandic fishing zone. this is in the interest of both parties, in line with relevant conservation and management measures and within the limits of the available surplus. likewise, this agreement allows the irish fishing industry to exploit and fish within greenland’s fishing zone. in a commission study on the agreement, it concluded that: ‘it would be in the interest of both the eu and greenland to renew the protocol, the protocol provides important economic benefits to both parties, and helps ensure coherence with eu fishing activities elsewhere in the region’. however, it is also important to note that whilst the overall objectives may be coherent, eu fisheries in the fpa have targeted stocks that are overexploited and/or contributed to catches that exceed precautionary advice. this aspect of the deal along with better data on fishing stocks needs to be taken into consideration by the council.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of renewing the protocol as it benefits both the eu and greenland while also benefiting the consistency of fishing activities elsewhere in the region.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report that will continue the eu’s important fisheries partnership with greenland and ensure proper management of fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ in 2002 the eu court of justice ruled that designation clauses in member states’ air services agreements are an infringement of eu law. they were found to be contrary to article 49 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. they enable a third country to reject or withdraw authorisation of air carriers not substantially owned or controlled by the member state or its citizens. to ensure fair competition in the union, and compliance with eu law, these provisions in bilateral air service agreements must be modified.
in writing. – i voted in favour as it was positive overall.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the agreement on certain aspects of air services between the european union and the macao special administrative region of the people’s republic of china. in terms of eu law i welcome this agreement that will ensure compliance with eu competition regulations and prohibit any anti-competitive practices in air services. more specifically this agreement will prevent third countries discriminating against eu air carriers that are established in a member state but which are not owned or controlled by nationals of that member state, as well as align the taxation of aviation fuel between the eu and the macao special administrative region of the people’s republic of china.
in writing. ‒ the background to this report is that the european parliament is being consulted on the extension of the current vat regime, which expired on 31 december last year. my party is opposed to minimum rates of tax rates being set by the eu as this fundamentally undermines a members states national sovereignty. a key point worth noting is that the vat action plan is seeking to abandon the origin principle (taxation where goods and services are produced) and replace it with a destination principle (taxation where goods and services are consumed). for consumers, the destination principle favours national production over imports as imports would in principle become more expensive. for export countries with a surplus on the current account balance, the origin principle is preferable. for deficit countries the destination principle is preferable. sinn fein would have a number of concerns in relation to these proposals; however, there are other aspects of the action plan which we would be supportive of, such as member states being provided with greater scope for vat powers domestically, which seems to be one of the options on the table. therefore, on the basis of the action plan and the positive and negative provisions contained within the ep consultation report, i decided to abstain.
in writing. ‒ this initiative will create directions for future work leading on from the success since the 2011 communication. that communication suggested that the origin principle be abandoned and detailed several ways of ensuring taxation at destination. the new action plan by the commission aims to detail the main parts of the definitive vat regime for intra-eu trade. it will also illustrate the reform envisaged to existing rules on vat rates, creating a definitive regime characterised by the destination principle. this proposal would retroactively include the principle of a minimum standard vat rate of 15%, the current arrangements would also be kept in place for a further three years until 31 december 2018. this harmonisation is essential for functioning competition within the internal market.
in writing. – i voted against. it should be for member states to decide vat rates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of retroactively maintaining the principle of a minimum standard of vat in all member states, for an extended period of three years, until 31 december 2018. minimum rates in the field of vat are warranted by the fact that vat at origin, rather than destination, is still applied to cross-border shopping and distance sales below a threshold. therefore maintaining the minimum standard rate applied in all member states provides a useful safeguard to the proper functioning of the internal market. taking into account that all member states currently levy a standard rate above 15%, the current agreement for a minimum standard rate of 15% also ensures room for manoeuvre for member states, allowing for vat reforms intending to reduce the standard rate by broadening the vat base and limiting the use of reduced rates.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion as it provides continuity for the standard level of tax rates in member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. a new europol regulation with a novel and more thorough process for concluding these kinds of cooperation agreements has been agreed upon. therefore, there is no need to rush through such agreements last-minute. when legalisation does not come under the appropriate scrutiny, this leads to a whole host of problems in the future.
in writing. ‒ this agreement would provide for a cooperative agreement between europol and brazil. unlike other cooperation agreements with third states or international organisations this would not include the exchange of personal data, making the issue of data protection void in the present case. this arrangement would enable the exchange of criminal investigation procedures, sharing of crime-prevention methods, training exercises, specialist knowledge and other provisions of support in criminal investigations. europol has found that cooperation with brazil is an essential factor in the fight against organised crime, such as human trafficking and drug related crimes. the 2016 olympic games may also lead to increased levels of crime activity in brazil, so urgent action in the form of cooperative measures are necessary.
in writing. – i voted against because we have a new europol regulation concluded (which will be voted soon) where there is a new procedure for such cooperation agreements, and i do not see a need to rapidly conclude new cooperation agreements under the old (and less stringent) procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion as it is a step towards improving the effectiveness of tackling serious crime.
in writing. ‒ the criminal proceedings concerning mep hermann winkler do not include any opinion expressed or vote taken in the performance of duties as a member of the european parliament. as such article 8 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union would not be breached by an investigation into the serious road traffic accident in which the mep was involved. there is no reason to conclude that there is any intention to damage the mr winkler’s political activity by these criminal proceedings as it has no link with the position held by the mep.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this was a non-controversial file, where all of the meps voted in favour of this report in the committee. the background of the report is based on recommendations made to the un general assembly in 2015 regarding the creation of a legally-binding instrument which would come under the auspices of the ‘united nations convention on the law of the sea’ which seeks to promote the conservation of marine biodiversity and sustainable usage of marine resources, it also acknowledges the negative impact that the rapid growth and expansion of marine activities (industrial fishing, marine drilling, shipping, etc.) on the marine environment across the globe. two important provisions were contained within the report: 1. 64% of the sea consists of areas beyond national jurisdiction. these unchartered waters should be have stronger legal protections under international law, 2. inclusion of measures which should insure accountability for parties participating in marine activities. therefore, on the grounds outlined above, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the sea covers 71% of the earth’s surface, while less than 1% of regions beyond national jurisdiction enjoy the protection of marine protected areas (mpas). for most of the ocean there is no legal mandate to create marine protected areas. existing legal framework on this matter was developed more than 30 years ago and further elaboration will be necessary to promote the conservation of marine biodiversity in areas beyond jurisdiction. the commission should encourage a holistic approach to mpas, because coordination amongst many stake holders involved marine activities is necessary. the un must implement existing rules and seek to establish additional ones to ensure the protection of biodiversity, also allowing for the creation of global management tools. this may include a centralised instrument for vessel registration, developing the global record of fishing vessels under the authority of the fao. it is essential that fishing activities be added to this new agreement, to ensure efficient coordination of marine biology related instruments.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this motion. the conservation and sustainable use of marine biodiversity under the auspices of international law is a common concern for all mankind and essential to ensure that our dependence on the ocean does not become too burdensome. the united nations convention on the law of the sea (unclos) provides for a mechanism whereby all actors with an interest in the development of the ocean’s resources are held accountable for their actions in relation to the sea. i feel that this reflects the attitude of the eu which should continue to play a leading role in the development of this new instrument and in the implementation process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion as it is crucial that an internationally recognised and agreed-upon, legally binding text is created, in an effort to protect the waters of the world.
in writing. ‒ this technical file deals with rules regarding the structuring of the breeding sector, management of breeding books/registers, intra-eu trade, and imports from third countries. at committee level, the report was broadened to also cover conservation of rare breeds, thereby protecting biodiversity. at eu level the intention is to harmonise the approach to trade in breeding animals. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this file.
in writing. ‒ the european union zootechnical legislation is aimed at facilitating intra-eu free trade for the breeding of animals and their genetic material. the commission’s proposal to consolidate these texts has been expanded to produce a synchronised structure of animal breeding which will affect animal genetics in europe. local breeds must not be put at risk in an attempt to improve competitiveness by exporting major european breeds internationally. animal breeding will now be required to meet certain criteria to receive recognition from the competent authority. this approach will enable european breeds to be structured efficiently on the global market.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this report. this will help to build a more cohesive single market for breeding in the eu compared with the current situation where legislation is fragmented across a number of directives. in addition to that, this legislation plays a key role in conserving rare breeds and thereby in protecting biodiversity, something which i am very concerned about as there are many endangered breeds of animals in ireland and europe. i was very happy that parliament amended the commission regulation to lay down zootechnical and genealogical rules for the preservation and improvement of animal breeding as well as rules governing the conservation and improvement of native or endangered breeds. likewise, i was pleased to note that special provisions for endangered breeds and for the horse-breeding sector were included in the agreed text, along with clear definitions such as ‘breed’ which is essential to bring clarity to breeders and operators yet ensuring competitiveness throughout the eu. overall the text was proportional and allowed flexibility for member states to refuse the approval of a further animal-breeding programme.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion as it ensures the quality of controls along with the reintroduction of the principle of transparency. this is alongside the benefits of guaranteeing a minimum of administration burdens on the sector.
in writing. ‒ in 2015, 1.83 million persons were found attempting to cross the eu’s external borders. 20% of the incoming migrants who arrived by sea were children. it must be acknowledged that the current system for asylum does not alleviate pressure on member states with eu external borders. change needs to be implemented in order to facilitate a fairer system which would include shared responsibility, with a central system for allocating asylum applicants. this would include a quota of refugees for each member state. a binding and mandatory legislative approach is necessary for the relocation of asylum seekers. currently only a small proportion of 106 000 refugees in italy and greece have been relocated. in the event of a returns procedure, migrants should only be returned if their safety would not be at risk.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion to promote cooperation among actors involved in the migration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report as while the objectives and intentions on this report were very positive; any positive provisions were undone by a negative agenda running throughout the text. let me be clear, there is no party more committed to protecting irish sovereignty than sinn féin. in my role as an mep in the european parliament, i am continuously seeking to ensure that the interests of the irish people are placed at the forefront of any eu policy. it goes without saying that principle of subsidiarity must represent the starting point for policy formulation. however, the negative provisions in relation to eu trade policy and the isds, means that i was left in no position but to abstain on this report.
in writing. ‒ the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are pinnacle principles of the eu. national parliaments, having had closer involvement in the european legislative process over the last years, have increased awareness of the eu’s guiding principles. impact assessments in the legislative process are essential and issues relating to subsidiarity and proportionality must be dealt with in detail. these assessments, considered a key part of the democratic process, are necessary to engage the trust of citizens. national parliaments should exchange their views on the evaluation tools used in order to assess conformity with subsidiarity and proportionality principles. this would strengthen the yellow card procedure, which is integral for influencing eu decision making. as such this procedure should be made more accessible for parliaments. the commission is called to make the procedure for applying eu funds, particularly the application process, more efficient.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission’s annual report that looks at how the eu institutions and bodies have implemented the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the report carefully examines the control mechanisms for the principles and suggests several modifications enabling national parliaments to have further involvement in the legislative work of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion as the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are an important element of policy formulation to allow the eu to effectively achieve policy goals and these measures would allow for a more transparent process.
the president, having voted in favour of the group of laws on the leasuithe all these laws and having given them to the report itself, is exceptional. i don't want to hear about it. the refit programme especially is a very good one, and i strongly welcome the commission's move towards a better regulation agenda led by vice-president timmermans. i especially welcome the emphasis on smes and how they can sometimes be hampered by excessive bureaucracy. smes are the drivers of employment and economic growth in the european union. this time in particular we must do everything we can to ensure that all small businesses can prosper and create more and more jobs. bad or excessive regulation is one of the main barriers to entry for small businesses. incumbent market players can deal with this, but smes cannot, and for that reason i welcome the opportunities to have better regulation, removing excessive red tape, which will allow market access for smes. this will drive innovation, growth and lower consumer prices.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which concealed its real agenda under terms such as ‘administrative burdens’ or ‘regulatory burdens’ these are codes for an economy of low-pay, long-hours, non-unionised, de-regulated, two-tier, universal labour with the very barest minimum of social welfare support and privatised public services. the discussion around lifting administrative burden for smes is something of a red herring: the extension of the better regulation agenda is biased towards deregulation and will be used to justify lower standards for eu workers (including those in smes). refit is linked to 'better law-making' and it is primarily concerned with de regulation. it is being concealed under the cover of efficiency but the agenda is very much related to financial de regulation. moreover, important initiatives such as maternity leave, cancer protection at the work place, etc. have already been blocked by eu-commission with reference to refit. better regulation was also major part of the brexit deal to promise the uk an even more market liberal european union and it also seems to play a role in the ttip negotiations.
in writing. – i contend with the majority view that food information provided to consumers is adequate without nutrient profiles. nutrient profiling is endorsed by the word health organisation to determine whether food producers can claim their products to be healthy. this is a sad example of what pro-industry conservatives mean when they talk about reducing bureaucratic burdens for business and streamlining law-making in the eu. consumer information was the target in this case, which sends a loud pro-food industry message from parliament. just because there are eu law provisions on health claims and food labelling, which always suffer a barrage of sniping from global food conglomerates, this does in no way mean that we are providing clear and useful information to our citizens when they choose food products. there is no reason to allow products that are high in salt, sugar or saturated fats to be promoted as healthy just because producers added some vitamins to make the claim. this is not a call for better regulation. it is yet another nod to the peddling of junk in shiny packaging.
in writing. ‒ the refit programme is central to the commission's new strategy for enhanced law-making. this strategy sets out better law-making procedures with an aim to simplifying eu law whilst reducing the regulatory burden. clarity and transparency is however absent from the many different names used by the commission for various programs, making it confusing for citizens. the commission confirms that the refit programme does not put any existing policy objectives in danger. it will not have a negative impact on the safety or health of citizens on the union, nor workers, or the environment.
in writing. – i voted against paragraph 47 as it will create a situation whereby people are misled as to the health benefits of foods.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it proposes to overhaul all eu legislation to ensure that legislation is more accessible, by cutting red tape and removing unnecessary regulatory barriers. the refit programme aims to correct any legislation that contains burdens, inconsistencies, and ineffective measures in order to proceed with corrective measures. the emphasis on maintaining political trust and balance between the parliament and the commission is also a positive aspect for the functioning of this institution.
the uachtaráin, again voted with my group in the vote of all and took the laws at an end. without doubt the single market is there to promote competitiveness, innovation, growth and job creation, and it is vital that we ensure that the single market legislation is an effective well-designed policy, particularly now as we seek to continue along the path to economic recovery. it will set the right environment for businesses to thrive. there are three aspects i just want to emphasize briefly. one: impact assessments, which have been mentioned already. these have to be careful and detailed and undertaken in a proper manner. two: consultation with stakeholders is crucial, and again this has to be open, transparent and inclusive. three: the legislation itself must be fully implemented. this is not always the case, and if we want to reap the benefits of the single european market, effective and high-quality implementation is crucial to realising a fully functioning single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. this is an own-initiative report setting out parliament’s views on the implementation of measures relating to the single market. the report contained some positive provisions such as a call for the inclusion of worker and consumer rights in addition to considering environmental and socio-economic considerations. however, it did not call for any new measures, but for the effective use of existing instruments, a code word for further single market integration, thereby stripping member states of their governmental autonomy.
in writing. ‒ the continuous improvement of single market regulation must be shared amongst each institution of the union. measures that are created should be easily applied and efficient with a view to achieving the agreed policy aims. effective legislation cannot be achieved by one step, it must be created from an effective functioning of the whole policy cycle. the removal of all regulation is not necessary for the improvement of single market regulation; however a competitive regulatory environment must be created which keeps employment and enterprises within europe.
in writing. – protection of workers, sustainability and the role of smes are included and i am happy with the final result. no new measures are called for, no new powers for the commission. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it is essential to the continued development of the single market that we regularly review the implementation of regulations that nurtures the free movement of goods and the free movement of services, enhances competitiveness, promotes a business- and consumer-friendly environment based on transparent, simple, and consistent rules offering legal certainty and clarity. while this report focuses less on individually assessing these factors of single market legislation and more on better legislation in a larger and more general sense, i did vote in favour of this report as it calls on the commission to improve its understanding of factors which influence policy implementation, and asks that new legislation be based on thorough impact assessments and to be as technology-neutral and future-proof as possible to ensure better regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution due to its reassurance that improving the single market is a responsibility to be shared among all eu institutions whilst emphasising the need for an effective and efficient policy cycle to produce good legislation.
i want to vote again with my group in all the votes here and i think we should report back. i think that we should learn in schools and teach our citizens the truth about the laws of the union. you're not going to get the truth, especially on the tabloids. usually they're quiet, but sometimes they're quiet. and without any of the reasons why brexit is happening now, there are no citizens left. the aim of the project is to provide a platform for the exchange of information and best practice on the european union's external relations policy. the programme is a fantastic one and i am proud of it, the real ghorm programme, which helps children in all schools in the eu to learn about the eu in their own countries, languages and cultures. it is three in the clutch without a thiocfaidh siad ar an bhfírinne faoin aontas.
in writing. ‒ this report contained some positive provisions specifically regarding the positive and proactive role that the eu can play in everyday life. however, it does not encourage critical engagement or thinking within the eu. this is absolutely crucial for any well rounded and robust learning programme. it is not simply good enough to blindly accept the authority of the eu project without it being subject to greater scrutiny and debate. if the introduction of an eu dimension into school education is being introduced, then a wider array of views must be taught to school goers than the simple assertion of the immutability of the status quo. that mind set serves no-one and it was for these reasons that i abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ as many as 44% of european citizens do not understand the functioning of the eu and as such feel like their voice is neglected within the union. it is important, especially amongst young europeans, that they be aware of their rights and also the history of europe. this education could be used as a tool against euro-scepticism. although many member states already have content on the subject of the eu included in school curricula, the content is often too general, and there is a need for consistency with other subjects being taught.
in writing. – there is no doubt that we need to know a lot more about the guts of the eu, considering its impact now on our own legislation, on our lives; no doubt either this should begin as early in life as possible. but who controls the agenda, who writes the curriculum, how much will be included in that syllabus about the amount of damage the eu is doing? i abstained.
in writing. ‒ enhancing dialogue about the european union and its institutions in schools would be an innovative method for educating citizens on the european political process. greater education on the eu would encourage eu citizens to engage with the eu institutions more frequently and simultaneously combat euro-scepticism. rapporteur drăghici notes that 44% of european citizens feel that they have limited understanding of how the eu works and 52% of europeans believe that their voice does not count in the eu. the benefits would be manifold if schools within the union were to disseminate information regarding the functioning of eu institutions and their competences. this initiative would also help to celebrate the cultural and linguistic diversity of the eu, which, in turn would help to resolve several challenges which it faces, and for these reasons i support the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion as education is a key feature of european integration. it is important to continue the work currently in place and foster these european programmes to allow for the continued sharing of good practices among networks. it is beneficial that this support is urged by the report to include the continued active distribution of information on european educational programmes such as europe for citizens. as progress continues it is a necessity that funding is appropriately increased to ensure that eu education is available to all ages.
in writing. ‒ this is a very positive report on the erasmus programme and calls for better access to mobility programmes for learners in vocational education and training. programmes such as erasmus provide key opportunities for our young people to study in various european cities. these opportunities not only enrich the lives and education of our young people, but also provide a great boost to irish cities and towns in terms of european funding. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ erasmus+, which was created to replace other preceding programmes, has created the gateway for mobility at the level of european higher education. the social and economic circumstances in some member states point to a need for a revival in the form of vocational education throughout the union. there is a huge imbalance in unemployment rates amongst member states and a multidimensional response is required. a common framework which outlines possibilities available to students should be created. programmes should be introduced to tackle language barriers, different cultural realities and create successful environments for mobility. the programme should also see to it that mobility leads to employability, one of the main aims.
in writing. – this is a worthy attempt to incorporate vocational education and training into the already very successful erasmus programme. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion as enabling more erasmus+ opportunities is a positive in enabling more mobility options for young people among european union networks. this will be enhanced by closing the gap between vocational education and training systems.
in writing. ‒ as a consequence of the free movement of capital, the stability of the financial system depends on the ability to create and implement regulations of conduct at supranational level. democracy should not be negatively affected by the dilution of responsibilities. the roles of both the european parliament and national parliaments must remain important and not become a mere rubber stamp. it is essential that the eu and the euro are capable of protecting their strategic interests.
in writing. – as it was expected, none of our amendments was in the compromises so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that seeks to help clarify the role of the european union in the financial sector by examining the work of the eu within organisations of a political and technical nature. with so many international financial bodies, for example the imf, oecd, iasb, g20 etc., all showing diversity in legal status, operating jurisdictions, internal structure, and competencies, the relationships between these bodies as well as with the eu are complex. this report highlights this diversity and fragmentation of international financial bodies and stresses the need for clarification of roles and international regulatory cooperation. in addition, given the strategic importance of the financial sector for growth and jobs, the report calls for a review of multilateral global cooperation, giving increased importance to the eu and the euro area and also calls for the commission to take initiatives aimed at enhancing transparency and accountability in international fora.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion as clarification is needed of how each international organisation/body at an international level is funded along with its concerns and the ways in which they function and are financed, in order to ensure the absence of vested interests and the legality of decisions.
mr president, thank you for the opportunity to say a few words on this important topic, especially as i come from a small island country, ireland, where coastal communities are of such vital importance to us, and also i had the privilege of doing an opinion on blue growth in the last mandate. that shows that the opportunities are there to diversify, to innovate and to create jobs in the coastal communities. fisheries obviously are vital for them and i welcome the suggestions in this report to develop that. also, it can diversify into other areas. one is the whole area of sport in relation to coastal activities. this is a huge growth opportunity which must be developed. another is fishing tourism; i was speaking to a man yesterday who told me that in the united states there were ten times more people interested in fishing than in golf. we can see how golf tourism has grown, so these are opportunities which we must help to create for our coastal communities.
in writing. ‒ this report is a step in the right direction as it acknowledges the fact that small-scale fishing should not be categorised in the same manner as industrial, aka large-scale fishing, and thus there should be a clearer distinction. especially as there are fundamental differences in terms of the scale of the environmental impact, sustainability and socio-economic interdependence between small-scale fisheries and communities that rely on sustainable non-industrial fishing, whereas industrial vessels and their multinational operators are not concerned with having a symbiotic relationship with any particular coastal community and their surrounding marine environments – their general concern is profiteering and maximising the detrimental exploitation of stocks. the focus on more regionalisation and a more equitable distribution of quotas for non-industrial fisheries was something that my party would be very supportive of. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ coastal fishing ensures high levels of employment in depopulated areas. areas depending on this form of employment need specific measures and support so they can develop and grow. shortcomings must be acknowledged, particularly in terms of investment in science and the lack of data on seas and oceans. the monitoring of seas and oceans, although improved, is still not sufficient. data is difficult to access and the procedure for doing so is time-consuming and costly. tourism, culture and artistic activities could be used to diversify the fisheries sector, thus ensuring its continuation. activities which tie into renewable energy and environmental protection must be accessed to provide a sustainable future for the fisheries sector.
in writing. – i voted in favour as the report is positive overall.
in writing. ‒ i was very happy to support this report along with my alde colleagues. many coastal and island regions in ireland and the eu are facing a significant economic decline, which is resulting in depopulation and the exodus of their inhabitants. it is precisely in such areas where the pressure in terms of using the sea’s resources is growing, and the fisheries sector is being marginalised in favour of tourism. thankfully this report addresses these structural issues and offers solutions to support small-scale and coastal fisheries in the eu. the report calls on the commission to take into account socio-economic and environmental considerations and to promote, through the regionalisation process, a new definition of coastal fishing in line with the specificities of each fishery. it also calls on the commission and on member states to gradually increase the quotas allocated to non-industrial fisheries, in order to boost socially and sustainable forms of fishing. this is vital for the continuation of small-scale coastal fishing which is of historical and traditional importance.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion as diversification is a required path to take, in order to prevent further decline in the sector whilst also allowing for new developments to be explored that have the potential to be greener.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that emphasises the importance of, and challenges to, traditional coastal fishing and its impact on livelihood of citizens in island areas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it contained a number of positive provisions. there were provisions contained within which refer to the external dimensions of the cfp, and provisions which accentuated the need to address illegal, unregulated and unreported fishing. this includes minimum conditions for bilateral agreements, and a duty to foster cooperation among regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos), not to mention ensuring that the sustainable fisheries agreements with third countries benefit third countries, including their local populations and fisheries sectors, and promoting environmentally, socially and economically sustainable fisheries based on transparency and the participation of non-governmental stakeholders. these are all positive moves and should therefore be supported.
in writing. ‒ in recent years the amount of nations engaging in distant water fishing has increased dramatically. china, korea and taiwan have adhered to aggressive policies to ensure access to dwindling resources. these fleets take less care for the environment, and they do not fulfil their responsibilities to human rights. this provides them with a competitive economic advantage, which vessels from the eu lack. the long distance advisory council recommended that transparency must be improved in fishing activities. promotion of harmonisation of condition of access for fleets outside the eu should be worked on. politics needs to be engaged with in order to aid flag and coastal states in the fight against iuu fishing. food security could be ensured by ameliorating the supply of fish available.
in writing. – positive initiative involving a new look at the common fisheries policy from the point of view of its impact on the environment and especially, on its impact on the partner nations in bilateral agreements. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as did the vast majority of my colleagues in parliament. i believe that the cfp has a vital role to play in trying to influence and protect europe’s high environmental and labour standards in external waters. in fact, it is my opinion that the strength of the eu is its normalising influence on others to introduce better standards in all sectors. when the cfp was established, there were relatively few distant water fishing nations, operating a long way from their own coastal waters. now, three decades later, the situation has changed radically and there is intense competition in all ocean areas. this has its own problems for the environment and fishing stocks as well as workers’ rights. thankfully this report highlights the importance of the eu distant fleet activity in protecting our interests and at the same time addresses the shortcomings that still need to be tackled. it calls for stricter inspections to ensure eu standards are maintained, greater traceability of products that enter the food supply chain and the need for distant fleets to only fish surplus stocks among others.
in writing. ‒ i was in favour of this resolution as it would allow the eu to promote sustainable fishing whilst also providing an appropriate element of support for the industry in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report that underscores the eu’s leadership role in the ‘race to the top’ in environmental, transparency and fish stock management standards, as the eu is the largest market for fisheries products in the world.
mr president, i welcome the commission’s proposals of today and congratulate commissioner hill for bringing those proposals forward. i think there is huge public support for his initiative and that of the commission when it comes to tax transparency. we should not, however, confuse tax competition on the one hand and tax transparency on the other. it is perfectly logical that we can have both, and we need to have both so that europe remains strong and we can compete against the united states and other regions of the world. i very much support the fact that in the proposals announced today, the commission has set out its view that companies who operate in europe can no longer aggregate what they provide in terms of offshore locations. it now has to be provided offshore by offshore, as it were, and also that would be crucially important for making sure that there is some confidence in the use of those companies wherever they have their operation. finally, i want to say this. if we can do anything to speed up this procedure, rather than having it in place in 2018, we should be ambitious enough to have this in place in the earliest possible timeframe.
mr president, i welcome commissioner hill’s proposals today building on the work that is being done at oecd level and the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) movements there, going of course one step further in ensuring that there is public disclosure of tax paid by multinationals and which countries it is paid in within the eu. it is very important in terms of transparency. i welcome and would agree with your comments, commissioner, also when you say you are pro-business. i would be pro-business also because i think business is important, whether they be multinationals, smes or micro-enterprises, because businesses employ people and they do provide very valuable employment. indeed many smes also depend on the existence of multinationals in the supply chain and also provide services to the employees there. so there is a symbiotic relationship that needs to be recognised. nonetheless, if the figures are that the tax authorities across the eu are losing eur 50 to 70 billion a year, i think it is time that action was taken to ensure that multinationals pay taxes in the jurisdiction in which they make their profit.
mr president, i would like to briefly congratulate and compliment the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, who has made sterling efforts in recent times, especially to focus on the relationship between the eu and cuba. i think it is fair to say that we are now entering a new relationship with cuba. we have been ahead of the united states of america since 2008, and i very much welcome, as the high representative has said, the engagement by president obama and his administration in opening up the relationship between the united states and cuba. it is only through engagement that we can argue for our values, human rights and democracy. it is not by shutting people out or shutting the door of cooperation with cuba. i believe that this agreement has the potential, for us at least, to highlight those european values on the world stage. we should not forget the important trading links between cuba and the eu; the eu remains cuba’s main export partner. each year, as we have engaged, our trade with cuba has gone up exponentially, and i suspect that that will continue into the near future. we should also be proud of the fact that parts of our development aid programme and our expertise programme, especially for young cuban students and for public officials, is something that we should be proud of.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development.– mr president, as the rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development on this report, i would like to congratulate my colleague for her excellent work in this report. i also want to congratulate the high representative on her speech just now, where she reminded us of the need for collective action across all eu institutions so that, at the forefront of our mind, in trying to address many of these global and regional problems, we have to act decisively together. we do need a clear sense of direction and vision as we try to deal with the complex issues that europe now faces. we also need to be very clear about what our priorities are. in the drafting of my opinion, i set out the importance of policy coherence as a key issue. i believe it is important that we enhance coherence between our internal and external policies and improve coordination between institutions and member states. i am particularly happy that the rapporteur continued to make reference in her report to the involvement of national parliaments in the policy coherence agenda. we have to work together, we have to work with national parliaments, and we have to work across all institutions to ensure that our objectives are met in the future.
before i give the floor to our next speaker mr lundgren for one minute, can i say that because of time constraints i will no longer be able to accept blue cards. i hope you understand the reasons for that, and indeed we may have problems with ‘catch the eye’ because i am required to finish this session on time.
can i just inform the house at this point that i did indicate there would be problems with ‘catch the eye’, and unfortunately we are not able to take any of the requests because many people want to speak in this debate. i would, however, invite you to submit your written speeches and i do apologise in advance because of time problems.
madam president, i must say that i have some sympathy and indeed admiration for presidents tusk and juncker in their efforts to deal with this unprecedented crisis, and i think they are showing both leadership and courage in trying to find solutions when all around them are criticising them. while it might be unpalatable from the humanitarian point of view to see migrants returned, it is necessary if we are to control external borders and bring order to a sea of chaos. we have to do the same everywhere. if everybody could walk into this parliament and speak when they felt like it, then we would have chaos. it is the same with the migratory flows. president juncker also made a very important point regarding the eur 6 billion for turkey. he said it is not going to turkey, it is going to the refugees for their food, shelter, education, and this point has been completely lost in the media. finally, as an add-on, he was able to say that with 22 million people unemployed in europe, we need to start working to help them as well.
the debate is closed. i wish to inform the house that before we move to the formal sitting with the president of the portuguese republic, we will now have the three institutions sign the better law agreement. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with an application to the european globalisation adjustment fund. the report concerned the volvo group truck operation and 647 workers were being made redundant workers. the european globalisation fund provides financial support to groups of workers who have lost their jobs due to the impacts of globalisation and recession. the european commission provides a portion of the fund which is then matched by the relevant government. however the fund has been subject to significant controversies in the past. money has been used to fund existing supports for redundant workers rather than additional supports. workers were not adequately involved in the roll out of the programmes. worst of all, tens of millions of euros have been returned to the european commission unspent due to failure of government to properly run the programmes. on a number of occasions more than 40% of the eu funding for specific programmes has been returned unspent. this is absolutely unacceptable and highlights the irish government’s lack of action or care on such vital funding issues. this apathetic and incompetent attitude is unacceptable and id something that i will continue to raise on an eu level.
in writing. ‒ this is the second application to be examined under the 2016 budget and the 22nd for the manufacture of motor vehicles, trailers and semi-trailers sector and refers to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 793 710 from the egf for sweden. the swedish authorities state that the event giving rise to the redundancies are the developments affecting the european commercial vehicles, and in particular the truck industry in recent years, namely with emerging asian truck manufacturers, and the difficulties of the truck industry to adjust, forcing it to increase efficiency and decrease cost.
in writing. – i voted in favour in order to support both the funds for the workers and their potential reemployment and the reference to the obligation for companies to comply with their responsibility.
in writing. ‒ i supported this application for the mobilisation of the egf for 647 workers made redundant in volvo trucks and its suppliers and downstream producers as a result of globalisation in the manufacture of commercial vehicles sector. this is a relatively small segment within the larger automotive industry and is no longer dominated by european manufacturers with increasing competition from asia. in particular i welcome the fact that 40 000 new employees will be needed in the västerbotten region and that the measures targeting workers, who regard their educational level as insufficient for the vacancies identified in the region, which require specialised education, will be provided. however it is regrettable that quite a high amount is to be spent on allowances and incentives, at the maximum allowed amount of 35% of the overall package, although they are conditional on the active participation of the targeted beneficiaries in job-search or training activities. it is also unfortunate that the commission was unable to comply with the deadline for the completion of the assessment of this application which is not in the interest of the beneficiaries although it must be noted this was due to an exceptional shortage of staff.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this application as the implications of its success would be beneficial for irish business.
in writing. ‒ i voted in in favour of releasing european funds to enable works to adapt to recent changes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was technical by nature but contained some very positive provisions, specifically in relation to releasing up much needed funds for the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ this concerns the mobilisation of eur 380 000 from the fund, covering technical assistance for the commission. the objective of the technical assistance is to finance monitoring, information, to create a knowledge base interface and to advice member states on using, following up and evaluating the egf. according to article 11(1) of the egf regulation, 0.5% of the annual maximum amount of the egf (i.e. eur 828 060 in 2016) can be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. according to the commission’s proposal, in 2016 the requested amount is intended to cover the following activities: monitoring and data gatheringinformation creation of a knowledge base / application interface administrative and technical support evaluation
in writing. – i voted in favour. the demand to extend the help for neets within the egf framework after 2017 represents a small victory for our group. it lays down a common position from the ep which that can be recalled in future revisions. as well as the call for a wider use of the derogation criteria that will allow more egf funding for cases with less than 500 redundant workers, favouring smes and/or subcontractors or suppliers touched by the decision of a big group for example.
in writing. ‒ i supported the application by the commission for eur 380 000 of the egf to be mobilised in 2016 for measures for technical assistance to finance expenditure. this amount is below the maximum of 0.5% of the annual maximum amount of the egf and contains the same items to be funded as in the previous year. this assistance provided by the commission to the member states supports and enhances the use of the egf by providing information on the applications and by spreading best practice among member states. positive measures proposed are the funding of the expert group of contact persons of the egf and networking seminars on the implementation of the egf as the promotion of the fund is hugely important. i hope this exchange of information will contribute to better and more detailed reporting on the success rate of the applications in the member states, in particular about reach and re-employment rates of beneficiaries which are crucial in order to assess the added value of measures. in this regard i also welcome the integration of reporting into the electronic data exchange system which could ease the administrative burden for member states and facilitate the use of reports for evaluation purposes.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution as the european globalisation adjustment fund provides much needed support for workers who have been affected by the major structural changes in the global trade patterns as a result of globalisation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of activating the egaf to help with the necessary changes that need to be made in today’s society with continuous developments.
in writing. ‒ it is important and welcome to see staffing increase for europol’s european counter-terrorism centre considering the current security situation in the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this amendment as it allows for a quicker response to humanitarian disasters from the eu by implementing a new financing instrument.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including samo jereb, held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision of the epp cont members and voted in favour of mr jareb.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including mihails kozlovs held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision of the epp cont members and voted in favour of mr m. kozlovs.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including jan gregor held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision of the epp cont members and voted in favour of mr gregor.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including ladislav balko held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision of the epp cont members and voted against mr balko.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination to the court of auditors on the grounds that none of the candidates including janusz wojciechowski held the required level of professional qualifications or expertise that would be required to satisfactory fulfil the post. my parties’ policy has always been about transparency, accountability and diversity on all boards, including state boards. in ireland, we have seen first had the corrosive culture of cronyism. we are still seeing it in the cronyism of debacle which is currently occurring around government formations. furthermore, despite concerns being raised by the european parliament on a number of occasions, all 6 candidates nominated were men. this is completely unacceptable and serves only to undermine any positive advances which have been made in recent years to increase the number of women in public life. sinn fein will have no hand or part in any such regressive, duplicitous or purposely vague moves. the society we are aiming for is one that is real, meaningful and where issues such as gender equality will be truly tackled and where cronyism is confined to the political dustbin of life.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision of the epp cont members and voted against mr wojciechowski.
mr president, i think we came to a sensible compromise: to ban outright glyphosate at this particular time would not be wise based on improbable evidence. to say that something is probably carcinogenic sounds terrible, and that is why we took the action we took to limit it to seven years. having said that, stuart agnew spoke last night, and he mentioned here on monday night that other aspects which are regarded as carcinogenic by the who are sitting in front of a log fire, cutting human hair, etc. so giving us the space to look at it, to ensure that the product is absolutely safe for humans in the food chain, is ultimately a wise decision. i think that it will allow the farmers to continue with their work, otherwise they would have to stop and grow no arable crops possibly. that would be very disruptive. we have come to a sensible compromise. let us all work together and ensure that we know exactly what is happening and assure our citizens that everything in their food is absolutely safe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution on the eu approval process for the chemical glyphosate. i do not believe that any such process calling itself a scientific safety assessment can be based on unpublished, industry-sponsored and non-peer-reviewed data. given that iarc, the well-respected cancer expert group of the world health organisation, using publicly available, peer-reviewed and independent data based on its strict policy on conflicts of interest, found that glyphosate was ‘probably carcinogenic’ raises serious concerns that the european food safety authority (efsa) found contradictory results (‘unlikely’ to cause cancer) just months later. efsa claims that the reason for its differing conclusion is because it included data the who did not include, but this data was excluded from the who assessment precisely because it did not meet its standards on independent and peer-reviewed data. scientific assessment should not be based on secret industry data and any approval process of glyphosate should be halted until efsa releases the data it used to come to its conclusion. not to do so risks further undermining confidence in the eu approval process as a whole.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for resolution which allows the market renewal of glyphosate for just 7 years, not 15, and for professional uses only. i also supported an amendment calling for an independent review and the publication of all scientific evidence that the european food safety authority uses to assess the use of glyphosate.
in writing. ‒ i support a limited – 7 year not 15 as proposed by the commission – extension of the approval of glyphosate, a widely used herbicide. efsa has declared it is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic hazard. iarc categorises it as probably carcinogenic – in the same category as red meat, lead compounds, frying emissions and biomass fuel. properly used by trained operators the chemical can be safely used and assist conservation agriculture which seeks to be more climate and environmentally friendly. i also support continued research into alternative and effective herbicides and pesticides.
in writing. ‒ i support a limited – 7 year not 15 as proposed by the commission – extension of the approval of glyphosate, a widely used herbicide. efsa has declared it is unlikely to pose a carcinogenic hazard. iarc categorises it as probably carcinogenic – in the same category as red meat, lead compounds, frying emissions and biomass fuel. properly used by trained operators the chemical can be safely used and assist conservation agriculture which seeks to be more climate and environmentally friendly. i also support continued research into alternative and effective herbicides and pesticides.
in writing. ‒ despite the vague name of the report ‘the eu in a changing global environment - a more connected, contested and complex’ the report itself is essentially calling for increased harmonisation, synergy, development and investment for eu military capabilities, and a closer relationship with nato. we voted against the report as a whole as we reject the militarisation of the eu, and the erosion of irish neutrality which is essentially what this report is calling for. sinn féin has long advocated a policy of active neutrality, rejecting participation in any military alliance and supporting an enhanced role for the united nations in resolving conflicts around the world. sinn féin has consistently called for a greater focus on solving the causes of conflict, such as political and economic inequality and instability and the absence of democracy. our own experience of conflict and conflict resolution has taught us that the path to peace is not to be found in increasing military capabilities but in dialogue, inclusivity and equality. my party in europe will continue to focus on these issues in addition to ensuring that vital public funding is not being diverted to propping up military actions outside of the european union. i call on all other irish meps to commit likewise.
in writing. ‒ since the 2003 security strategy, the eu’s strategic environment has changed radically. while much has been achieved over the last decade, today an arc of instability surrounds the union. further afield, we see conflicts in africa and security tensions in asia, while climate change and scarce natural resources harbour the risk of more conflict. at the same time, global growth, interdependence and technological progress enable ever more people to escape poverty and live longer, healthier and freer lives. the eu must confront both the challenges and the opportunities that come with its changed environment.
in writing. – i voted against as i have serious concerns about its military nature.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote for this resolution. the eu has a key role in upholding the principles enshrined in international human rights law, and that therefore, human rights must be meaningfully integrated into the new global strategy. eu foreign policy must adopt a strategic approach to human rights, emphasising concrete actions and outcomes and demonstrating coherence in the eu’s engagement on human rights across different countries and regions, regardless of security, foreign policy, trade, energy, aid or other concerns. the eu must recognise the full extent of the deterioration in its immediate strategic environment, and the long-term consequences thereof. the fact that multiple crises were occurring simultaneously within the union meant that no member state could respond alone and that europeans should exercise their responsibilities collectively to ensure their security.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting as this report did not reflect ireland’s position as a neutral country
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on implementation and review of the eu-central asia strategy as it stresses the strong strategic, political and economic interest of the eu in strengthening its bilateral and multilateral relations with all the central asian countries on the basis of common shared values. however it also highlights the promotion and reinforcement of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and good governance. it stresses that despite limited positive developments in the countries of the region, democratic standards and human rights remain an issue, and pays special attention to women’s rights and gender equality. it also considers education to be a crucial pillar of integration and a democratic, economic and social development enabler for all the countries of central asia. for these reasons, i supported this report as a balanced one, recognising the importance of a strategic partner but also that there is more work to do on other key areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as the report highlights the rising importance of the relationship between the eu and central asia on the topics of trade and energy.
in writing. ‒ the world health organisation has declared the zika virus a global public health emergency. the infection is suspected of leading to thousands of babies being born with underdeveloped brains. some areas have declared a state of emergency, doctors have described it as ‘a pandemic in progress’ and some are even advising women in affected countries to delay getting pregnant.
in writing. – our amendments focused on: the implementation of specific measures for european regions, the establishment of communication plans, the possible causal relationship between microcephaly and the use of pyriproxyfen, as well as other possible and complementary causes of microcephaly. as they were accepted i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. it calls on the commission to mobilise eur 10 million for research on the zika virus in order to strengthen the laboratory capacity to confirm suspected zika virus infections and to differentiate zika virus infections from other arboviral infections as well as to prove the possible causal link between zika virus and microcephaly. it further calls on member states to increase awareness of clinicians and travel health clinics about the evolution of the zika virus epidemic and the affected areas, and to include zika virus infection in their differential diagnosis for travellers from those areas.
in writing. ‒ i believe that all member states must fully comply with eu law in their legislative and administrative practice, and that all legislation, including the primary law of all member states and candidate countries, must reflect and adhere to basic european values, namely democratic principles, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights
in writing. ‒ the situation in poland is becoming a growing concern for stability in the eu. the effective paralysis of the constitutional tribunal, which was established as one of the central elements in constitutional democracy, poses a danger to democracy, human rights and the rule of law. respect for the rule of law must be guaranteed by the tribunal, all the steps to be taken must respect the competences of the eu and of its member states, as set by the treaties and the principle of subsidiarity. it is out of these concerns that i voted in favour of this resolution.
madam president, i was privileged to be rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) from the very outset when the proposals were presented by the very competent commissioner at that time, viviane reding, right down to the final trilogue meetings on 15 december under the rapporteur jan albrecht. i must compliment him on doing a very good job on a very highly technical file. he showed great confidence and political skill, as indeed did my epp colleague axel voss. we have come up with a good compromise. we have at least replaced the 1995 directive, which was applied differently in all member states, with one set of rules which will be applied equally in every member state. that is good for citizens. it is good for businesses. for the data subject there is the right to be forgotten, the right to erasure; for businesses, clear rules in relation to the transfer of data, the use of data, fines, penalties, but also aspects such as their one-stop shop. a very good job was done. viviane called it historic. i agree with her.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123(2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 april 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by constance le grip, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure (com(2013)0813 – c7—0431/2013 – 2013/0402(cod)) (a8—0199/2015).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 april 2016.
the next item is the report by indrek tarand, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on parliament’s estimates of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2017 (2016/2019(bud)) (a8—0131/2016).
the president, although he wished to draw up a report, did not do so, and the work done was incorporated into this report. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that the whole of the work done by the ghaolainn agus gabhaim buíochas le gach aon fheisire is here and that you are taking part in it, including yourself, at uachtaráin. it is part of giving identity to our language and it is important that we have a common language with every other language spoken here. however, it is important to have a strong message from all other irish, as well as from other countries, and it is important to have a strong identity in this country. the commission has already approved a number of laws providing for an estimated eur 3.7 million to be spent on the assistance, and has also requested the authorities of the member states to undertake a process of recruitment to ensure that the skills and the translation services are fully available in the country. but, if the european union has been a great help to our people, i hope that the future will be a good one for them.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 14 april 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on – the oral question to the commission on review of the sme supporting factor by antonio tajani, othmar karas, burkhard balz, on behalf of the group of the european people’s party (christian democrats) (o—000045/2016 – b8—0353/2016);– the oral question to the commission on review of the sme supporting factor by elisa ferreira, on behalf of the group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament (o—000057/2016 – b8-0354/2016);– the oral question to the commission on review of the sme supporting factor by paloma lópez bermejo, fabio de masi, marisa matias, dimitrios papadimoulis, miguel viegas, merja kyllönen, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left – nordic green left (o—000060/2016 – b8—0355/2016);– the oral question to the commission on sme supporting factor by sylvie goulard, michael theurer, marian harkin, petr ježek, sophia in 't veld, nils torvalds, philippe de backer, cora van nieuwenhuizen, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o—000065/2016 – b8—0356/2016);– the oral question to the commission on review of the sme supporting factor by kay swinburne, on behalf of the european conservatives and reformists group (o—000066/2016 – b8—0357/2016).
thank you, commissioner; you have given us food for thought. mr moraes, your microphone is not switched on. what i will do out of respect for the commissioner – and please do not heckle – is to ask him if he wishes to reply, but he is not obliged to answer that question. if he does not wish to, i hope you will respect his reply. commissioner, if you do not wish to answer, that is fine. i was going to conclude the debate by saying to you, commissioner, that you have given us food for thought on the numbers of smes and the potential for employment, so thank you for that.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group.– mr president, i welcome this important report on combating poverty. in my home country, three-quarters of a million people are living in poverty. 13% of those are people with jobs, so we need to deal with the issue of decent living wages. ireland’s rising poverty is coinciding with a severe crisis in housing and homelessness, as a result of government policies. i therefore particularly welcome the report’s acknowledgment that housing is a fundamental right and its call for the expansion of the supply of quality social housing. the relationship between the social housing stock and homelessness is undeniable. we have 6 000 homeless people in ireland, 1 600 of whom are children. 140 000 people are on social housing lists, yet only 28 social houses were built. family homes are being repossessed while rental tenants are pushed across the poverty threshold because of skyrocketing rents. we need to see housing as a right. i also welcome this report’s call for a moratorium on winter heating cut-offs. we also need real action on the crisis of poverty.
mr president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur for his important report. it is important because it highlights the fact that one in six europeans are either in poverty or at risk of poverty. in ireland the figure is 16%. but crucially, the report points to concrete measures that can be taken to try to meet the eu 2020 anti-poverty targets. we are all aware that poorer households spend a higher proportion of their income on household costs, whether accounted for by utilities or housing or energy or food, than other households do. therefore, a minimum income that takes into account the economic and social circumstances in each member state and is based on a life-cycle approach is, in my opinion, a safety net. certain practical suggestions, such as a winter heating disconnection moratorium, the possibility of extending the fund for the most deprived, and measures to reduce energy poverty, such as micro loans for investing in energy efficiency, are all important steps. access to water and sanitation is a human right, and privatisation of these services has had a negative effect on households. finally, i agree with the commissioner. we need to upgrade our skills and invest in jobs and, crucially, decent work and decent jobs. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i agree with you: we need the commission to define it, and we certainly support the idea of a winter—heating disconnection moratorium. it will not solve all our problems, but at least it is a step in the right direction. it is an issue that we need to tackle, both at european and at national level, and i welcome some of the comments from the commissioner on that particular point today.
madam president, i think that the attacks in brussels by the terrorists brought home to us what many people are suffering around the world. whether it is in brussels or lahore, we obviously have to do everything we can to fight terrorism and also to try to win the ideological war against extremism, which is equally important. while the government in pakistan is trying to introduce some reforms, particularly to ban child marriages and to protect women against all sorts of discrimination, we have to do far more to put pressure on these governments so as to ensure not only that there are reforms but that they are actually implemented. there is far too much discrimination, particularly against women, with women of minority religions being forced to convert to islam and forced into marriage. we have a lot to do and we have to do everything we can to help.
i'm sorry, but i think my group has a very good report on our situation and i think it's right that we should choose a different one. if there is no sea, it is probably gur maith an rud is go bhfuil díbát aginn faoin nigéir anseo inniu. and then, suddenly, it's like a thru-hill and it's in the slit. the sea is deep, it has natural resources to be found here. ta daoine iontacha sa tír, ach tá an tír a coinneáil siar ag dhá rud ach go háirithe: eachtraí boko haram agus mímhacántacht de gach saghas trasna in tíre. the people are afraid of their country, and they are afraid of the people who are behind them. cafithimid troid against boko haram, especially to allow them to state ioslamach, sea to thuigeann siad is, to establish. and also, you have to have every man troid against you in the making. it is said that they have fallen between three and eight billion every year because of the ghoid. therefore, it is better to be silent.
the president, in his capacity as president, has been asked to ensure that better cleaning procedures are put in place. this is a technical note on the first reading of the legislation which has been introduced by uasail tarand and he says: phasing out of the temporary derogation measures for the use of the irish language that were established by regulation no 1 of 15 april 1958. ireland did not join the european union until 1973, and since then the oil industry has been completely mixed. i didn't want to see a bad movie until 2007. i would like to draw your attention to this: the details of the button are often not as simple as they may seem, and the laws may not have implications for the law or for legal matters.
madam president, having been involved as the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on this subject from the start of the process four years ago to the final trilogue just before christmas, it gives me great pleasure to be here today to see us adopting this very important report. it will, as has been said, set the rules for the new digital age. it ensures that data subjects have control of their data, but we not stifling the digital economy, which is of major importance. we have introduced many concepts, such as the right to be forgotten, the right to erasure, parental control to ensure that the abuse of young people online can be controlled, and, of course, also a concept known as the ‘one-stop shop’, which will be very important for businesses operating in the european union. this is a very good day. it shows that, if we cooperate, we can get a good result.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote as a way to ensure the privacy concerns of citizens are protected whilst allowing authorities to have necessary access to data to ensure the safety of all europeans.
in writing. – i voted in favour because i believe citizens are protected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it aids security measures within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the update of the data protection regulation that recognises developments in technology and strikes a balance between protecting the needs of individuals and of businesses that process personal data
the president, having received the report, shall make the laws referred to in the preceding paragraphs, and shall inform the president of the results of the vote. the commission has also set up a system of information exchange between the member states and the commission, which is based on the principle of mutual recognition of information. so we can be sure that we'll be safer in the future, but there are clear rules now that they can be taken, and they have to be enforced.
in writing. ‒ i supported this to ensure that authorities have access to the necessary data to keep europe safe and protect our citizens.
in writing. – i voted in favour because it is positive for citizens living within the eu.
in writing. ‒ data protection has become a hugely important area of eu policy and law. the repeal of directive 95/46/ec allows for more practical and updated legislation to be passed into law and provide a system whereby citizens’ fundamental right to privacy is respected. this will allow people to regain control of their personal data and also bring eu legislation into the digital age.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of protecting the processing of individuals’ data (including victims, witnesses and suspects) by competent authorities in the interest of preventing and prosecuting criminal offences.
madam president, when we were debating these proposals i posed the question that, if we rejected the proposed legislation today, who would be the happier – the citizens of europe, the data subjects, or the terrorists? the answer was obvious – the terrorists – because, if i am traveling from dublin to beirut, new york, sydney, wherever, why should i be afraid if the authorities have that information? when you have nothing to hide, you have nothing to fear. i think now, at least, the authorities will be able to get their hands on data to track terrorists and would-be terrorists. i think that is a good thing and, as mr jahr said, the rules are laid out pretty clearly in relation to the use of the data.
in writing. – we should not have cleared this method of mass surveillance and dragnet data gathering whilst making the sharing of data optional, at the discretion of each member state. this whole system could end up costing eu taxpayers a billion euro that are sorely needed in policing, intelligence, judicial and information-sharing capabilities. we need a targeted method, with judicial oversight, where chartered and private flights do not escape a dragnet that will ensnare us all instead. it is not a shortage of data that has hampered our counter-terrorist efforts, but the very lack of cross-border cooperation to share it which we have very much failed to mandate today, while diverting scarce resources on a blind database. we should not compound a heightened vulnerability from terror with self-inflicted weaknesses in our fundamental rights and liberal form of government.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the implementation of an eu-wide passenger name record (pnr) system which will empower the authorities to better track terrorists and serious criminals by giving them access to flight data.
in writing. – i voted against because i believe it will result in more problems than it solves.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the pnr for the benefit of the security of european citizens, as it will be a very important tool in fighting crime and terrorism in the future.
madam president, this is indeed a very important piece of legislation because protecting trade secrets is vital and this will deter third parties more effectively from misappropriating and dishonestly exploiting trade secrets within the european union. as an irish mep, i support the compromise reached on the proposal. a number of irish comments were taken on board and addressed in the compromise text, for instance with regard to the litigation limitation period. i am also very glad that key compromises were reached on legal redress against the theft and misuse of a trade secret, protecting freedom of expression and information, and preserving workers’ mobility. dá bhrí sin is dóigh liom go bhfuil an-jab déanta againn anseo arís agus is féidir lenár ngnólachtaí a bheith sásta leis.
in writing. ‒ sinn fein voted against this controversial bill. in essence the provisions contained within this report effectively criminalise whistle-blowers. whistle-blowers and journalists could be criminalised if they publish information that companies deem to be secret. as has been noted by a number of ngos, the trade secrets protection act would have potentially criminalised the release of the panama papers: this legislation will make it possible for corporations to define any information they do not want released as a trade secret, and then prosecute journalists or whistle-blowers who release it to the public. this chilling censorship of freedom of expression is one that must be fought at all times. freedom of expression is one of the essential foundations of any democratic state. my party knows first-hand the dangers of this fundamental freedom being curtailed. legislation was introduced in order to censor sinn féin. such draconian measures seek only to undermine democracy. freedom of expression is the basic right to communicate and should be respected by all those who value democracy. this regressive bill was approved by parliament and so it will now need to be passed into law by national parliaments across the 28 nations of the eu.
in writing. – eu companies face unfair competition if their knowledge is stolen through industrial espionage and that is why these practices are indeed illegal in eu countries. but this ostensible attempt at bringing eu-wide standards of protection for company secrets has turned into a much broader-reaching piece of legislation which fails to protect insiders who stand to lose their careers, income and face harassment and persecution when they blow the whistle on corrupt and unethical behaviour in their organisations. there is one single argument which to my mind suffices to reject this legislation. it does nothing to protect the likes of antoine deltour, who is being prosecuted for theft of pricewaterhousecoopers corporate secrets in luxembourg, because his revelations of tax impropriety shed light on practices that were not illegal, although deeply unscrupulous. i do commend the efforts of progressive colleagues who worked hard to improve the text; for instance, as regards the protection extended to journalists. still, in the absence of proper safeguards to protect workers who risk everything to tell the truth, this vote should have been postponed until they are brought forward. because it was not, the directive should have been quashed.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on trade secrets because it offers concrete solutions for fighting industrial espionage, whilst guaranteeing freedom of expression and information – starting with the freedom of the press and the activities of whistle-blowers.
in writing. – i voted against as the public will be denied access to vital information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this directive, which lays down common measures against unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure of trade secrets, aims at striking the right balance between effective protection of the trade-secret holders’ interests and fundamental rights. trade secrets are particularly important for smes and start-ups as these often lack specialised human resources and financial strength to manage and defend their iprs in which they have invested a great share. different member states’ legislation creates an uneven level of protection of trade secrets against their unlawful acquisition, thus leading to fragmentation of the internal market for information and know-how. the harmonisation of eu trade secret law will improve conditions for firms to develop, exchange and use innovative knowledge; it will help businesses and innovators to boost confidence through legal certainty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as the protective measures outlined aid workers when moving jobs whilst also promoting the business within the eu.
i'd like to talk to you about two points. an chéad phointe ná go bhfuil an-áthas orm gur ghlac an pharlaimint leis na multaí anseo inniu, agus ceann de na multaí, baineann sé leis an teanga ina bhfuilim ag labhairt anois an teanga ársa uasal ghaelach. the first point is that the european parliament has adopted laws in many languages today, and one of the most important is that these laws are in a language which is not spoken today. for this language, we are now at the disposal of the european parliament, which has allocated eur 3.7 million to irish language services, especially for foreigners who need to translate official documents. taispeann sé go bhfuil an taontas i bhfabhar teangacha beaga, an gaeilge ach go háirithe, agus go bhfuil siad sásta airgead a chur ar fáil chuige. taispeann sé go bhfuil an taontas i bhfabhar teangacha beaga, an gaeilge ach go háirithe, agus go bhfuil siad sásta airgead a chur ar fáil chuige. taispeann sé go bhfuil an taontas i bhfabhar teangacha beaga, an ghaeilge ach go háirithe, agus go bhfuil siad sásta airgead a chur ar fáil chuige. taispeann sé go bhfuil an taontas i bhfabhar teangacha beaga, an ghaeilge ach go háirithe, agus go bhfuil siad sásta airgead a chur ar fáil chuige. taispeann sé go bhfuil an taontas i bhfabhar teangacha beaga, an ghaeilge ach go háirithe, agus go bhfuil siad sásta airgead a chur ar fáil chuige? therefore, my thousand thanks to the gach duine is as without doing. an important point is that the laws are voted on in strasbourg and not in brussels. voted 474 in favour and 118 against. taispean se go bhfuil se in am dúinn deireadh a chur leis an dá shuíomh. taispean se go bhfuil se in am dúinn deireadh a chur leis an dá shuíomh. taispean se go bhfuil se in am dúinn deireadh a chur leis an dá shuíomh. taispean se go bhfuil se in am dúinn deireadh a chur leis an dá shuíomh.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. it earmarks an additional eur 3.7million for the irish language in parliament. it is very important that irish has full working status in the eu and an improved level of services for those who use our native language. the funding will enable parliament to employ more irish language speakers and provide extra irish—language services.
in writing. – i voted against as i do not agree with the budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution as it is a leading action to be made by the eu on the global stage. these new measures will provide greater procedures for transparency and efficiency. i had no objections to the final report.
in writing. ‒ this report deals with the process of turkey’s accession to the eu. it highlights many of the problems turkey faces, including human rights abuses, democratic rights and the ongoing mistreatment of refugees. i supported a number of amendments, including those calling for better treatment of refugees, and the removal of the pkk from the terror list as a necessary step towards peace between turkey and the kurds. however, the report welcomes the inclusion of turkey on the list of so-called ‘safe countries of origin’ for refugees. despite the many problems turkey faces, and without a resolution of the matter of cyprus, the report is still supportive of further steps towards turkey’s accession to the eu. i therefore abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ turkey has been linked to the eu by an association agreement since 1964 and a customs union was established in 1995. the european council granted the status of candidate country to turkey in december 1999 and accession negotiations were opened in october 2005. within the framework of accession negotiations, 14 chapters have been opened so far and one of these was provisionally closed. preparations started for the opening of chapter 17-economic and monetary policy which would underpin the envisaged high level economic dialogue with turkey.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i am in favour of continuing talks with turkey.
in writing. ‒ this report provides an update on albania’s efforts to meet the hurdles required for eu membership. the report highlights some of the key problems facing albania, including high unemployment and poverty rates, corruption, organised crime, child trafficking, freedom of the press, rule of law and judicial independence, and references the need for an improved political process, which is currently endangered by a lack of dialogue between parties. however, it welcomes albania’s inclusion on the list of so-called ‘safe countries of origin’ for refugees, as well as welcoming albania’s full alignment with the eu foreign and security policy, and economic structural reforms. as a result, i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ in june 2014, the european council granted albania candidate status. in the past year, albania has implemented smoothly its obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement (saa). regular political and economic dialogue between the eu and albania has continued through the relevant structures under the saa. the government engaged in eu-related reforms and in addressing the five key priorities identified for the opening of accession negotiations. albania continued to actively participate in high-level dialogue meetings, as well as in the related joint working groups on the five key priorities.
in writing. – i abstained on the report because i am critical about the imposition of reforms by the eu, in particular in the economic and social areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report that welcomes albania’s progress, thus far, in reforms as part of the accession process. the report outlines the key priorities that albania must address in order to construct a democratic political structure.
in writing. ‒ this report calls on bosnia-herzegovina to engage in various reforms, particularly against corruption and organised crime, human trafficking, the rule of law, discrimination on the basis of gender or sexuality, and reform of public administration. it also highlights some of the shortcomings of bosnia-herzegovina in the establishment of a democratic, multi-ethnic and stable state. despite these and other issues, the report strongly supports eu integration and the accession of bosnia and herzegovina to the eu. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ the eu initiated in december 2014 a new approach to bosnia and herzegovina, which provides for the re-sequencing of the conditionalities in order for the country to progress towards the eu and address the outstanding socio-economic challenges it faces. this led to the entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between bosnia and herzegovina and the eu on 1 june 2015. it replaced the interim agreement (ia) which had been in force since 2008. in july, the country adopted a reform agenda aimed at tackling the difficult socio-economic situation and advancing the judicial and public administration reforms. its implementation has started.
in writing. – i would be critical of the reform process which is linked to privatisation and liberalisation and ignores the social problems linked to this process. i reject the recommendations on foreign and security policy. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which acknowledges the necessary criteria of the accession process. notably, the report demarcates the need for independent media and the necessity to tackle corruption in order to become a democratic society.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to build bridges between social policy and energy policy in the european debate by stressing that the eu is getting further from the eu 2020 anti-poverty target, while the eu has relevant unmet potential for reducing major household costs of poor households through targeting existing renewable and energy efficiency projects on energy poor households. the report aims to meet the eu 2020 anti-poverty target and also meet energy efficiency, emission and renewable targets, and calls on multiple actors to take further steps with the help of various instruments but in the same direction
in writing. – i voted against as i believe the eu through the ecb is actually causing poverty.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this important report which highlights the fact that one in six europeans live in poverty, or are at risk of poverty – in ireland that figure is 16% and 3 out of every 10 children suffer deprivation - stark figures. we are all aware that poorer households spend a higher portion of their incomes on household costs such as food, compared with other more affluent households. the report highlights concrete measures that can be taken in order to try and meet the eu 2020 anti-poverty targets such as a winter heating disconnection moratorium, a possibility to extend the fund for aid to the most deprived, and measures to reduce energy poverty such as micro-loans to invest in energy efficiency. i also believe that a minimum income which takes into account the economic and social circumstances in each member state and which is based on a life-cycle approach, can act as a safety net for those families at risk of, or living in, poverty.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that looks at how energy and consumer prices can have an impact on poverty levels, and the report identifies measures which can combat this.
in writing. ‒ the private sector can be an engine of inclusive growth by generating decent jobs, contributing public revenue and providing affordable goods and services. if it invests in suitable innovation and business models, it can also improve poor people’s lives by boosting their productive activities. the commission assists developing countries in their economic reforms and private sector development initiatives.
in writing. – i voted against as the report is neoliberal in its thinking.
in writing. ‒ the private sector generates 90 % of jobs and income in developing countries and is the engine of wealth creation and economic growth in all market economies. according to the united nations, the private sector accounts for 84% of gdp in developing countries and has the capacity to provide a sustainable base for domestic resource mobilisation, leading to less aid dependency, as long as it is properly regulated. private sector investment in developing countries could contribute to achieving the un sustainable development goals if properly regulated. to this effect, the private sector should commit to ensuring good governance, poverty reduction and wealth creation through sustainable investment, as well as to reducing inequalities, promoting human rights and environmental standards and empowering local economies. the eu should promote the local private sector in developing countries, e.g. through access to finance and by promoting entrepreneurship. for these reason i voted for the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this report that outlines the significant role that the private sector has in providing jobs and in helping to combat poverty in developing countries.
mr president, i knew there were problems in relation to the transport sector and migration, but i did not realise that they were as bad as has been outlined – although the figures presented to us are extremely vague. when you talk about a cost of between eur 5 and eur 18 billion, is it eur 5 billion or is it eur 18 billion? that is a big difference. i think we should be more accurate in that regard. nevertheless, this is a very serious issue. i know from speaking to people in ireland, especially in the haulage area – whose annual dinner i will actually be attending on saturday night – that they have had huge problems going to the continent, especially at calais. as the last speaker pointed out, they feel their lives are at risk, and many of the things that have happened are absolutely extraordinary. so we have to move to try and deal with that situation in the interests of our own citizens, who are delivering their goods right across the european union. to do that, i think the commission is, in fairness, trying to legalise the migration. without it being legal, you cannot make progress because, if you have a situation where anything illegal is tolerated, then you have chaos. that has been the situation up until now, and the commission is trying to deal with it. the only way we can do it is if all member states cooperate.
mr president, i found this discussion fascinating, and arising from it i have just a few questions which the commissioner may be able to answer, or at least we will get answers in due course. firstly, what is the likelihood of public acceptability for autonomous vehicles on the roads, especially in the transitional period, when there may be very few initially and then more and more in due course? secondly, liability in the event of an accident has been mentioned: is it the passenger’s or the owner’s, who may not be a passenger at that particular time? i think that is a very important question which will have to be looked at. we also have the whole question of costs. is there any idea about how much these vehicles are likely to cost? will costs be more or less than the vehicles we have now? and, of course, there is the crucial question arising out of cop21 and climate change: will it lead to more or less emissions? that is hugely important.
on behalf of the ppe group.– mr president, i want to welcome the report by mr pirinski and thank him for the work we did. i also welcome to parliament president hoyer, on behalf of the european investment bank. the eib is europe’s bank. it must be part of our recovery and it plays an increasing role in long-term european investment which, as commissioner moscovici pointed out, is eur 15 billion down in public and private terms from the start of the crisis. now the priorities of this parliament in obtaining more public-private models of funding, more solutions for long-term investment, and the emergence of a genuine capital markets union, all point to a new era, to the future-proofing of the eu economy. in all of that, the eib plays an increasingly active role. what is particularly encouraging for countries like my own, which have gone through terrible adjustment programmes and seen a massive fall-off in public and private investment, is that when confidence is restored and when a country is turned around, the eib’s investment significantly improves new investment opportunities in countries such as ireland. now 2014 was a very significant year for the bank. i welcome especially, on behalf of the epp group, the fact that sme lending in 2014 was eur 25 billion, which was a significant improvement on previous years. obviously the eib plays a crucial role in the success of the efsi juncker investment plan, and the great challenge we face is to realise the private sector contribution, given the capital from the eu budget and the efsi itself. while over eur 20 billion was released for strategic investment in 2014, we have to be more ambitious now at this especially important time for europe. across the eu the private sector has cash-rich balance sheets which we need to find a way to unlock for all our investment needs. finally, i want to agree with president hoyer when he said repeatedly that he wants further engagement with the european parliament. we need to find a means of doing that for the satisfaction of this parliament and its committees and the eib, and the satisfaction with the integrity of the entire process. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i think the adoption of this report looks back on 2014 and sets out what we need to do as a european union because we recognise, as is in the report, the fall-off of investment in public-private capital. that is not going to be helped by politically picking and choosing projects. we have got to get behind projects which make europe more competitive and improve employment and growth prospects. the only way that can happen is to have a strong governance arrangement at the bank, whereby projects that actually succeed – which make the bank stronger and europe stronger –are the projects that we should support. we should not politically intervene in that, because that would be to the detriment of europe’s long-term growth potential. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
i'm going to ask you a question. i am under the impression that you are talking about investing in public services, but without yourself and without a junker plan for example there is no public bank in ireland, but there is money, and it is very difficult for people to get additional money and even to get money from the eib. how are we going to do it in ireland when our reality is finally going to face up to this challenge? the aim is to prevent people from investing their money in commercial banks rather than in public ones, and to avoid having to spend money in places where it should not be spent.
blue-card answer.– ms ní riada, in a funny way we actually have public banks in ireland because one of our banks is 95% owned by the state and there is a direct obligation on that bank, which now has a new mandate with the eib, to use eib funds for sme lending. there is also an obligation, i think, to use the potential of the efsi and juncker plan to get behind big projects. and if i can be critical of ireland here, like other small countries, i wonder are we seeing the magnitude of projects coming forward from countries like my own and other small member states? if one listens to some of the reports recently from the eib there is an argument that we need to be more ambitious for the bigger projects, the bigger projects that can transform economies, that can make economies more competitive, that actually make a difference when it comes to making a difference for the european union. i hope that whatever government is in place in ireland over the course of the next file will follow that advice. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– i don’t think so, because if you read what the entire ambition of the eib is – and i am not speaking on their behalf, but i have read the reports closely – future-proofing means that we invest in the long—term sustainable approach. so it is very important in the future, for instance, that we invest in projects which have a systemic importance to energy supply, that we invest in green technology and that we try to anticipate the problems that are coming down the track. that can only be done with an eye on the future, because we live in a society that is radically changing. we have got to make sure that the technologies we have in place get this kind of support from the eib. i think there is a willingness on the part of the bank to do that. maybe after all these questions i might even apply for president hoyer’s job myself.
madam president, the eib is mostly about big investments in big projects. it raises its funds on the international money markets. here, though, i have a few very pertinent points for you, mr hoyer. the major source of employment across the eu are smes – small and medium enterprises. the best way to grow our way out of the malaise currently afflicting the eu is through expanding our smes. the cheapest source of money in the eu at the moment is the ecb. given all the above, i suggest the eib should lower its sights a little and, in a proactive way, open its arms and its coffers to smes. i suggest also, rather than go to international money markets for its millions, the eib should go to the ecb for funding at negative interest rates. if there are some rules preventing that, i am sure the same ecb will find a way around them. after all, they managed it in ireland in 2010 when they found a way around their own rules and the use of emergency liquidity assistance (ela) to create eur 31 billion to bail out failed creditors of two failed irish banks. the same eur 31 billion is now in the process of being destroyed and taken back out of circulation at the insistence of the same ecb. not very good for investment in ireland really, is it?
the president, the vice-president and the president of the commission will make a report to the president. it's gonna work. the way in which the eib's work is assessed in the context of the interinstitutional relationship should be considered, in particular the current level of funding, the level of employment and the level of inequality. i am calling on them to implement real strategies immediately to ensure that investment is made with a social and economic impact and that it is encouraged to do so. in ireland, i'm working on a eib loan to give those who want to dance, a loan to their parents. the eib has also made billions of euros available to the uk to help them with social assistance. in éirinn, there is an easpa tithíochta práinneach agus is seisear daoine nua gach lá cláraithe mar dhaoine gan dídean. in 2016, one hundred years after the first amateur dance in the casque, we can't take the laws away from the children and the children can still dance. the eib has also welcomed the investment in social infrastructure on the basis of the more important, more responsive role of the public authorities in ireland.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 28 april 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iii – commission and executive agencies (com(2015)0377 – c8—0199/2015 – 2015/2154(dec)) (a8—0140/2016),– the report by martina dlabajová, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the report on the court of auditors’ special reports in the context of the 2014 commission discharge (com(2015)0377 – c8—0267/2015 – 2015/2206(dec)) (a8—0127/2016),– the report by claudia schmidt, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh european development funds for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0379 – c8—0248/2015 – 2015/2203(dec)) (a8—0137/2016),– the report by markus pieper, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section i – european parliament (com(2015)0377 – c8—0200/2015 – 2015/2155(dec)) (a8-0135/2016),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ii – european council and council (com(2015)0377 – c8—0201/2015 – 2015/2156(dec)) (a8—0101/2016),– the report by anders primdahl vistisen, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section iv – court of justice (com(2015)0377 – c8—0202/2015 – 2015/2157(dec)) (a8—0123/2016),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section v – court of auditors (com(2015)0377 – c8—0203/2015 – 2015/2158(dec)) (a8—0107/2016),– the report by anders primdahl vistisen, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vi – european economic and social committee (com(2015)0377 – c8—0204/2015 – 2015/2159(dec)) (a8—0111/2016),– the report by monica macovei, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section vii – committee of the regions (com(2015)0377 – c8-0205/2015 – 2015/2160(dec)) (a8—0132/2016),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section x – european external action service (com(2015)0377 – c8—0208/2015 – 2015/2163(dec)) (a8—0136/2016),– the report by ryszard czarnecki, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section viii – european ombudsman (com(2015)0377 – c8—0206/2015 – 2015/2161(dec)) (a8—0121/2016),– the report by monica macovei, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014, section ix – european data protection supervisor (com(2015)0377 – c8-0207/2015 – 2015/2162(dec)) (a8—0109/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014: performance, financial management and control (com(2015)0377 – c8—0266/2015 – 2015/2205(dec)) (a8-0080/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the agency for the cooperation of energy regulators for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0236/2015 – 2015/2191(dec)) (a8—0087/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0237/2015 – 2015/2192(dec)) (a8—0093/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0215/2015 – 2015/2170(dec)) (a8-0084/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0209/2015 – 2015/2164(dec)) (a8—0082/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0225/2015 – 2015/2180(dec)) (a8—0088/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0220/2015 – 2015/2175(dec)) (a8—0095/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0239/2015 – 2015/2194(dec)) (a8-0133/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european banking authority for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0233/2015 – 2015/2188(dec)) (a8—0090/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0222/2015 – 2015/2177(dec)) (a8—0103/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0229/2015 – 2015/2184(dec)) (a8—0118/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8-0213/2015 – 2015/2168(dec)) (a8—0100/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european fisheries control agency for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0228/2015 – 2015/2183(dec)) (a8—0104/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0221/2015 – 2015/2176(dec)) (a8—0086/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0232/2015 – 2015/2187(dec)) (a8—0085/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0234/2015 - 2015/2189(dec)) (a8-0091/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0238/2015 – 2015/2193(dec)) (a8—0117/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0216/2015 – 2015/2171(dec)) (a8—0114/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0212/2015 – 2015/2167(dec)) (a8—0105/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0219/2015 – 2015/2174(dec)) (a8—0102/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for network and information security for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0223/2015 – 2015/2178(dec)) (a8—0098/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0224/2015 – 2015/2179(dec)) (a8—0106/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european securities and markets authority for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0235/2015 – 2015/2190(dec)) (a8—0096/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european training foundation for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0218/2015 – 2015/2173(dec)) (a8—0116/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the οperational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0240/2015 – 2015/2195(dec)) (a8—0124/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0214/2015 – 2015/2169(dec)))(a8—0134/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0230/2015 – 2015/2185(dec)) (a8—0110/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8-0210/2015 – 2015/2165(dec)) (a8—0120/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union’s judicial cooperation unit (eurojust) for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0217/2015 – 2015/2172(dec)))(a8—0099/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european police office (europol) for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0231/2015 – 2015/2186(dec)) (a8—0122/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0211/2015 – 2015/2166(dec)) (a8—0108/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0226/2015 – 2015/2181(dec)) (a8—0115/2016),– the report by derek vaughan, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0227/2015 – 2015/2182(dec)) (a8—0112/2016),– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0244/2015 – 2015/2199(dec)) (a8—0092/2016),– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the clean sky joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0243/2015 – 2015/2198(dec)) (a8—0094/2016),– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0265/2015 – 2015/2204(dec)) (a8—0119/2016),– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0247/2015 – 2015/2202(dec)) (a8—0113/2016),– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0246/2015 – 2015/2201(dec)) (a8—0083/2016),– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the innovative medicines initiative 2 joint undertaking (formerly the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines) for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0245/2015 – 2015/2200(dec)) (a8—0081/2016),– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8-0241/2015 – 2015/2196(dec)) (a8-0097/2016), and– the report by marian-jean marinescu, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the sesar joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 (com(2015)0377 – c8—0242/2015 – 2015/2197(dec)) (a8—0089/2016).
i just want to announce to colleagues that i know that because of an interinstitutional commitment you will be leaving the chamber, but you will return and we thank you for that.
madam president, of course it is very important that the european parliament has oversight of our budgets and see that public money is properly spent. transparency and performance-based budgets are essential. one area that was mentioned was in relation to pilot projects, and i think this is an area we should really focus on, especially as regards our commitments in cop21 and mr juncker’s desire that europe be world-leading in terms of renewables. so innovation and pilot projects in that area are vital. i would also like to mention briefly another point which seems to have gone off the agenda, and that is own resources. it was very much part of our discussions in the last mandate, but it seems to have gone off the agenda in this mandate. as we all know, it is most unlikely that member states are going to increase their contributions to the european union, and the demands are going up all the time. we should look at own resources as a means of funding.
mr president, after that last intervention, let me just bring the debate back to its core this evening, which is about children in cross-border situations. i have to say, even though it is rather late in the evening, i have been very impressed by the contributions from council and commission. very often you get criticised, but i thought you were very honest and open on this very sensitive issue. in my role as children’s rights mediator on this issue in parliament and in the committee on petitions we come across the saddest of cases, and we try in my office to bring about mediation. we do it very rarely, because usually people come to us at the very end stage, and i would appeal to the commission – and you have mentioned mediation – to do as many member states are trying to do: bring mediation in early, so that it can fix problems without that tension and adversarial system that is the courts. i think if member states do that and we look at it at a european level, it can be very helpful. clearly, in the brussels ii review you have mentioned some important points that have got to be looked at. it is about timeliness: a child removed by one parent from the other needs to be returned to its home in a timely manner, and we have several examples of member states who are not doing that. lastly, as time is short: we need judicial cooperation to be enhanced. we need to have informal networks for this to work properly. it is a problem that will not go away, and it needs our eyes watching very carefully. but i have been pleased that this evening there is some talk of progress at least.
mr president, first of all i want to thank the rapporteur, madam kuneva, for her report on domestic workers and carers in the eu. i personally submitted 17 amendments to our opinion in the employment committee, and i am very pleased to see that virtually all of those ideas are included in the final report. in particular my call on all member states to ratify convention 189 of the ilo is included. this is the domestic workers’ convention. in that context i am happy to say that my own country – ireland – has in fact ratified that convention, but 22 other eu member states have not, and they need to do so urgently. i am pleased also that my idea on ensuring the professionalism, or the professionalisation, of the sector to foster the creation of decent jobs leading to quality employment is included. and i am also pleased that might call for a carers’ leave directive is included in the final report. finally, i support the campaign ‘make them visible’, which highlights the need for proper working conditions and decent work for domestic workers and carers in the eu.
mr president, president juncker has said that we should have equal pay for equal work in the same place. so indeed, like commissioner thysson, most european citizens would believe that equal pay for equal work is guaranteed at eu level. however, in ireland we have a discriminatory two-tier pay system for nurses, gardaí and teachers – they get paid different salaries at the same point on the salary scale, and young teachers are on a much lower scale. one teacher emailed me and said that those who began teaching after february 2012 were earning over eur 220 000 less over a 40—year career than those who began before 2011. i wrote to the commission, but they said there is no eu law that applies to pay scales. nevertheless, the outcome of these discriminatory pay scales is that in ireland we do not have equal pay for equal work over a career. how can we say to that teacher who earns eur 220 000 less over a 40—year career that equal pay for equal work is guaranteed under eu law? we can’t. and we need to look at it.
mr president, this is mary boyle, ireland’s longest missing child case. six-year-old mary disappeared in 1977, and the man whom her twin sister believes is responsible for her disappearance still lives in that community and has never been formally brought in for questioning. allegedly, a still-sitting politician directly intervened, and that intervention led to one of the worst police cover-ups we have seen in ireland. almost one year ago, i brought mary’s twin sister ann to this parliament seeking justice. article 2 of the charter of fundamental rights guarantees the right to life. six-year-old mary was denied that right. article 20 of the charter guarantees the right to equality before the law, mary was denied that right. to this day there has been no inquest into mary’s death, no commission of investigation, despite a formal request from the legal team. in fact, it has never even been debated in the irish parliament, which is why i am forced to raise it here tonight. six-year-old mary boyle has been failed by the irish state.
in writing. – this report was concerned with concluding the adoption of protocols for croatia in the common aviation area agreements signed by the eu with georgia, removing barriers involving third parties. however, the report is further aimed at the extension of the single european sky policy across europe, which is pushing a single liberalised aviation market that has negative implications for national sovereignty in overseeing the aviation industry. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with concluding the adoption of a protocol allowing croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement. however, the report is further aimed at the extension of the single european sky policy across europe, which is pushing a single liberalised aviation market that has negative implications for national sovereignty in overseeing the aviation industry. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the protocol is to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia (article 1) and to provide for the necessary ensuing linguistic adaptations (article 2). the protocol will not introduce any changes to the substance of the common aviation area agreement.
in writing. ‒ i support the report by francisco assis on the draft council decision on conclusion, on behalf of the european union and its member states, of a protocol amending the common aviation area agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and georgia, of the other part, to take account of the accession to the european union of the republic of croatia. the protocol will allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the common aviation area agreement between the european union, its member states and georgia and to provide for the necessary ensuing linguistic adaptations. this is necessary for croatia to become a fully integrated member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this resolution as it allows for new opportunities for european airline operators and wider choice for european citizens when travelling.
in writing. – this report was concerned with concluding the adoption of protocols for croatia in the common aviation area agreements signed by the eu with georgia, removing barriers involving third parties. however, the report is further aimed at the extension of the single european sky policy across europe, which is pushing a single liberalised aviation market that has negative implications for national sovereignty in overseeing the aviation industry. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. – this report was concerned with concluding the adoption of protocols for croatia in the common aviation area agreements signed by the eu with israel, removing barriers involving third parties. however, the report is further aimed at the extension of the single european sky policy across europe, which is pushing a single liberalised aviation market that has negative implications for national sovereignty in overseeing the aviation industry. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with allowing croatia to become party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the eu and israel. as the report is further aimed at the extension of the single european sky policy across europe, which pushes a single liberalised aviation market, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of the protocol is to allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel (article 1) and to provide for the necessary ensuing linguistic adaptations (article 2). the protocol will not introduce any changes to the substance of the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this report. approval of the report allows for croatia’s further integration as a member state of the european union. the protocol to the agreement will allow the republic of croatia to become a party to the euro-mediterranean aviation agreement between the european union, its member states and the state of israel.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement as it allows for safer air travel within the eu while also expanding the possibilities for european airlines to offer more services for their customers.
in writing. – this report was concerned with concluding the adoption of protocols for croatia in the common aviation area agreements signed by the eu with israel, removing barriers involving third parties. however, a further aim is the extension of the single european sky policy across europe, thus pushing a single liberalised aviation market that has negative implications for national sovereignty in overseeing the aviation industry. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. – this report was concerned with the accession of croatia with regard to customs cooperation. there was nothing controversial in the report and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with the accession of croatia to the naples ii convention. the convention concerns cooperation on customs offences, the aim being to exchange information and support between member states. as the report concerns the mere technical accession of croatia to an existing scheme, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the act of accession of the republic of croatia contains a simplified system croatia’s accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu (previously article k.3 teu) or article 293 ec. in fact, article 3(4) of the act of accession simply provides that croatia accedes to the conventions and protocols by virtue of the act.
in writing. ‒ i support approval of the commission recommendation for a council decision on this matter. the act of accession of the republic of croatia contains a simplified system for croatia’s accession to the conventions and protocols concluded by the member states on the basis of article 34 teu. the convention of 18 december 1997, drawn up on the basis of article k.3 of the treaty on the european union, on mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations, will enter into force in relation to croatia on the date on which this decision takes effect.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it allows for more efficient security measures within the eu and more sustainable relationships between customs administrations from different member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the convention of 18 december 1997 and its application in croatia. this report outlines the arrangements for mutual assistance and cooperation between customs administrations.
in writing. – this report was concerned with the accession of croatia with regard to customs cooperation. there was nothing controversial in the report and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of bolesław g. piecha , who is a polish ecr-pis member of the european parliament. the request for the waiver of immunity concerned a traffic road infraction, whereby mr piecha had driven at a speed of 90 km/h instead of 60 km/h. he was sanctioned with a fine, which he wishes to pay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of waiving the parliamentary immunity of bolesław g. piecha , who is a polish ecr member of the european parliament. the request for the waiver of immunity concerned a traffic road infraction, whereby mr piecha was caught driving at a speed of 90 km/h in a 60km/h zone. he was sanctioned with a fine which he has already agreed to pay.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request for a waiver of immunity.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of bolesław g. piecha , who is a polish ecr-pis member of the european parliament. the request for the waiver of immunity concerned a traffic road infraction, whereby mr piecha had driven at a speed of 90 km/h instead of 60 km/h. he was sanctioned with a fine, which he wishes to pay.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which was concerned with the brussels iia regulation (ec) no 2201/2003. this was an important motion as the enforcement of family law decisions, particularly in custody cases, is a matter which needs to be urgently addressed. the resolution provides recommendations to the commission and member states on how to address the shortcomings in the upcoming review of the regulation. it calls for the interests of the child to be paramount in custody cases, and it also calls for a proper assessment of individual cases in family-related issues, which should not be hindered by budgetary cuts as a result of austerity measures. people (primarily women) compelled to use the family courts should not feel strained or be caused additional stress by an under-resourced centre only nominally dedicated to family welfare. importantly, the motion requested that member states designate specialised chambers within family courts, or cross-border mediation bodies, to deal with cross-border child-related cases, and it stressed the need to establish minimum standards for the hearing of a child in national civil proceedings, in accordance with article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which was concerned with the brussels iia regulation (ec) no 2201/2003. this was an important motion as the enforcement of family law decisions, particularly in custody cases, is a matter which needs to be urgently addressed. the resolution provides recommendations to the commission and member states on how to address the shortcomings in the upcoming review of the regulation. it calls for the interests of the child to be paramount in custody cases, and it also calls for a proper assessment of individual cases in family-related issues, which should not be hindered by budgetary cuts as a result of austerity measures. citizens (primarily women) compelled to use the family courts should not feel strained or be caused additional stress by an under-resourced centre only nominally dedicated to family welfare. importantly, the motion requested that member states designate specialised chambers within family courts, or cross-border mediation bodies, to deal with cross-border child-related cases, and it stressed the need to establish minimum standards for the hearing of a child in national civil proceedings, in accordance with article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ it is children who pay the price when eu member states fail to cooperate and protect children’s best interests in legal proceedings such as cross-border parental custody disputes and adoption decisions. we need specialised chambers within eu countries’ family courts to ensure that transnational cases are processed faster.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on safeguarding the best interests of the child across the eu. as outlined in the resolution, the eu may adopt measures concerning family law where there are cross-border implications under article 81(3) tfeu, including in the field of adoption. growing intra-eu mobility, an inevitable result of the right to free movement, has also led to increasing numbers of cross-border child protection issues, as evidenced by the large number of petitions received by parliament’s committee on petitions. the upcoming revision of the brussels iia regulation will be an important opportunity to addresses some of the current issues regarding implementation. i support the resolution’s reiteration of the importance of national authorities’ recognising and enforcing judgments delivered in another member state in child-related cases, and the call on member states to increase and improve cooperation among their judiciaries in cases involving a child. i also think the call to the commission to provide a clear and easily accessible guide, with practical information on the institutional arrangements on child protection, particularly regarding adoption or placement without parental consent, and on parents’ rights in different member states, would be useful for eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that seeks to support the best interests of the child in cases of parental child abduction and adoption, in judicial proceedings and in social services.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which was concerned with the brussels iia regulation (ec) no 2201/2003. this was an important motion as the enforcement of family law decisions, particularly in custody cases, is a matter which needs to be urgently addressed. the resolution provides recommendations to the commission and member states on how to address the shortcomings in the upcoming review of the regulation. it calls for the interests of the child to be paramount in custody cases, and it also calls for a proper assessment of individual cases in family-related issues, which should not be hindered by budgetary cuts as a result of austerity measures. people (primarily women) compelled to use the family courts should not feel strained or be caused additional stress by an under-resourced centre only nominally dedicated to family welfare. importantly, the motion requested that member states designate specialised chambers within family courts, or cross-border mediation bodies, to deal with cross-border child-related cases, and it stressed the need to establish minimum standards for the hearing of a child in national civil proceedings, in accordance with article 24 of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this request, which calls on the commission to consult closely with the european economic and social committee (a consultative eu body comprised of socio-occupational interest groups), in defining a european pillar of social rights.
in writing. ‒ europe is still facing problems resulting from the financial and sovereign debt crisis: poverty, social exclusion, inequality and high unemployment. at the same time, we need to update the social agenda and our social acquis in the light of economic and social trends of 21st century. this is a complex task, and a broad consultation process is needed to guarantee that all views are taken into account. the pillar of social rights is part of our work to strengthen economic and monetary union and is envisaged for the euro area.
in writing. ‒ i supported the request for consultation with the european economic and social committee on the establishment of a european pillar of social rights. as the european parliament is the only directly elected institution of the european union, it is important that channels of dialogue remain open between it and other european bodies.
in writing. – this report was part of a trio of reports which were purportedly concerned with improving and changing the structures of the european rail network. however, the railway package as a whole moves the sector in the direction of a single, more competitive, liberalised railway sector and the creation of a single european railway agency. whilst the three resolutions, including this vote, were largely concerned with removing technical barriers in inter-eu cross-border rail transport, the overarching aim was that of competitive liberalisation, often at the expense of the ordinary citizen. moreover, the package aims to do away with ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies who wish to enter the market. this constitutes a reduction in member states’ control over the sector, and is not a matter for the eu to be deciding on. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal which is part of the eu’s 4th railway package. the overall aim of the package is to move the sector in the direction of a single, liberalised railway sector. this proposal, in particular, was concerned with giving additional new tasks to the european railway agency so that it would become the only authority responsible for issuing authorisations for the placing on the market of railway vehicles and putting in place track-side control-command and signalling sub-systems. given that all of this contributes to the overall aim of doing away with the commission’s perceived ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies wanting to enter the market, i voted against. i believe that it is for member states to take decisions on these matters and to retain control over the sector, given the vastly different ways that it is run.
in writing. ‒ the proposal for a regulation on the european railway agency (era), along with the proposal to recast directive 2004/49/ec on rail safety and the proposal to recast directive 2008/57/ec on interoperability, forms the technical part of the 4th package, which focuses on the removal of the remaining administrative and technical barriers in the railway sector. it aims to amend the existing regulatory framework in order to define the new tasks to be carried out by the european railway agency in the field of interoperability and safety.
in writing. ‒ i fully support the eu agency for railways report. together with the safety (rsd) and interoperability directives (iod), the european railway agency (era) regulation is intended to remove the technical obstacles posed by differences in national standards – cutting the time and cost required to obtain authorisation for operations, locomotives and rolling stock to use the european rail network. the new rules facilitate the european agency as a one-stop shop. some national competences will gradually be delegated to it over a three-year transition period to enable the era to reduce costs and certification deadlines for the rail industry, similar to the eu air model.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it aids, and improves the safety of, the free movement of european citizens around europe by rail, which is an easily accessible form of transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of strengthening the development of the single european railway area with increased safety.
in writing. – this report was part of a trio of reports which were purportedly concerned with improving and changing the structures of the european rail network. however, the railway package as a whole moves the sector in the direction of a single, more competitive, liberalised railway sector and the creation of a single european railway agency. whilst the three resolutions, including this vote, were largely concerned with removing technical barriers in inter-eu cross-border rail transport, the overarching aim was that of competitive liberalisation, often at the expense of the ordinary citizen. moreover, the package aims to do away with ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies who wish to enter the market. this constitutes a reduction in member states’ control over the sector, and is not a matter for the eu to be deciding on. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. – this report was part of a trio of reports which were purportedly concerned with improving and changing the structures of the european rail network. however, the railway package as a whole moves the sector in the direction of a single, more competitive, liberalised railway sector and the creation of a single european railway agency. whilst the three resolutions, including this vote, were largely concerned with removing technical barriers in inter-eu cross-border rail transport, the overarching aim was that of competitive liberalisation, often at the expense of the ordinary citizen. moreover, the package also aims to do away with ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies who wish to enter the market: this constitutes a reduction in member states’ control over the sector and it is not a matter for the eu to be deciding on. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal which is part of the eu’s 4th railway package. the overall aim of the package is to move the sector in the direction of a single, liberalised railway sector. this proposal, in particular, is directly concerned with opening up national markets in order, it states, to make railways ‘more competitive’. it is aimed at increasing economies of scale for railway undertakings and increasing reliance on the european railways agency in that regard. given that all of this contributes to the overall aim of doing away with the commission’s perceived ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies wanting to enter the market, i voted against. i believe that it is for member states to take decisions on these matters and to retain control over the sector, given the vastly different ways that is it run.
in writing. ‒ this proposal aims to establish the conditions to be met to achieve interoperability within the union rail system in order to: define an optimal level of technical harmonisation; make it possible to facilitate, improve and develop rail transport services within the union and with third countries; and contribute to the completion of the single european railway area and the progressive achievement of the internal market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the interoperability of the rail system within the eu. this directive, together with the safety directive (rsd), and the european railways agency (era) regulation, makes up the technical pillar of the 4th railway package. the european railways agency will now be a one-stop shop for all applications for safety certification and the authorisation of locomotives and rolling stock for cross-border services. this will enable the era to reduce costs and certification deadlines for the rail industry, in a similar way to the eu air model.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of this resolution as it aids the completion of the internal market – a central strengthening element of the european union – by setting out necessary conditions for all aspects of rail travel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which seeks to remove technical and administrative barriers and to support more harmonisation throughout the european railway system.
in writing. – this report was part of a trio of reports which were purportedly concerned with improving and changing the structures of the european rail network. however, the railway package as a whole moves the sector in the direction of a single, more competitive, liberalised railway sector and the creation of a single european railway agency. whilst the three resolutions, including this vote, were largely concerned with removing technical barriers in inter-eu cross-border rail transport, the overarching aim was that of competitive liberalisation, often at the expense of the ordinary citizen. moreover, the package also aims to do away with ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies who wish to enter the market: this constitutes a reduction in member states’ control over the sector and it is not a matter for the eu to be deciding on. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. – this report was part of a trio of reports purportedly concerned with improving and changing the structures of the european rail network. however, the railway package as a whole moves the sector in the direction of a single, more competitive, liberalised railway sector and the creation of a single european railways agency. whilst the three resolutions, including this vote, were largely concerned with removing technical barriers in inter-eu cross-border rail transport, the overarching aim was that of competitive liberalisation, often at the expense of the ordinary citizen. moreover, the package also aims to do away with ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies who wish to enter the market. this constitutes a reduction in member states’ control over the sector and it is not a matter for the eu to be deciding on. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal which is part of the eu’s 4th railway package. the overall aim of the package is to move the sector in the direction of a single, liberalised railway sector. this report, in particular, is aimed at creating a single eu safety certification procedure, giving additional powers to the european railways agency. given that all of this contributes to the overall aim of doing away with the commission’s perceived ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies wanting to enter the market, i voted against. i believe that it is for member states to take decisions on these matters and to retain control over the sector, given the vastly different ways in which it is run.
in writing. ‒ the objective of the railway safety directive is to amend the existing regulatory framework in order to establish the migration towards an eu single safety certificate for railway undertakings and infrastructure managers, to be issued by the european railways agency, and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the various parties involved in the rail system in order to ensure adequate risk control at all levels.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal that aims to develop and improve safety whilst improving access to the market for rail transport services. this railway safety directive (rsd) constitutes a part of the technical pillar along with interoperability directives (iod) and the european railways agency (era) regulation. eu railways are among the safest in the world, with transport performance growing strongly and the number of train passenger casualties having decreased by more than 75% over the past 40 years. however, a high level of safety has to be maintained and continuously reviewed. the different approaches to safety among the member states constitute a crucial technical barrier to eu-wide transport and therefore to the creation of a single european railway area. the new rules facilitate the european railways agency in its task of progressively harmonising national rules through common safety standards in an efficient and cost-effective manner.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it improves the safety approach taken with regard to the european rail network and allows for an acceptable standard to be established among all member states.
in writing. – this report was part of a trio of reports purportedly concerned with improving and changing the structures of the european rail network. however, the railway package as a whole moves the sector in the direction of a single, more competitive, liberalised railway sector and the creation of a single european railways agency. whilst the three resolutions, including this vote, were largely concerned with removing technical barriers in inter-eu cross-border rail transport, the overarching aim was that of competitive liberalisation, often at the expense of the ordinary citizen. moreover, the package also aims to do away with ‘hidden discrimination’ against companies who wish to enter the market. this constitutes a reduction in member states’ control over the sector and it is not a matter for the eu to be deciding on. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. – this report was concerned with benchmark manipulation. a benchmark is a standard which is used every day to calculate the price – and risk – of financial instruments such as loans, mortgages, interest rates, swaps etc. prominent benchmarks such as the london inter-bank offered rate have been subject to manipulation by megabanks, either for market gains or to suggest enhanced financial ‘health’. this aim of the regulation was to improve the overall framework for benchmark—setting. however, the trilogue text did not improve on parliament’s text and the proposed regulation contains big loopholes which will allow manipulation to continue. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with benchmark manipulation. a benchmark is a standard which is used every day to calculate the price – and risk – of financial instruments such as loans, mortgages, interest rates, swaps etc. prominent benchmarks such as the london inter-bank offered rate have been subject to manipulation by megabanks, either for market gains or to suggest enhanced financial ‘health’. this aim of the regulation was to improve the overall framework for benchmark—setting. however, the trilogue text did not improve on parliament’s text and the proposed regulation contains big loopholes which will allow manipulation to continue. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the proposed regulation introduces a common framework to ensure the accuracy and integrity of indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts in the union. the main objectives are: to improve governance and ensure that administrators avoid conflicts of interest, or at least manage them adequately; to improve the quality of the input data and methodologies used by benchmark administrators; to ensure that contributors to benchmarks are subject to adequate controls; and to ensure adequate protection for users of benchmarks by enhancing transparency, ensuring adequate rights of redress and ensuring that suitability is assessed where necessary. the proposed regulation applies to all published benchmarks that are used to reference a financial instrument traded or admitted to trading on a regulated venue, or a financial contract (such as a mortgage), and benchmarks that measure the performance of an investment fund. the proposal exempts from its scope central banks that are members of the european system of central banks.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to establish a regulatory framework at union level for indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts. after recent cases of manipulation of interest-rate benchmarks such as libor (london interbank offered rate), euribor (euro interbank offered rate) and foreign exchange benchmarks, i welcome this new regulation that will prevent banks manipulating indices in order to influence the prices of loans, mortgages and derivatives to their own advantage. this new legislation ensures a high level of consumer and investor protection that will prevent future fraud and the controlling of benchmarks, which can inflate the prices of many consumer goods, from petrol to mortgage rates. until now, in most member states, there has been no national-level regulation of the production of benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to this resolution as it allows the eu to be a leading example globally, by setting a high standard of regulation for financial benchmarks.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which seeks to promote transparency and improve the overall quality of benchmarks.
in writing. – this report was concerned with benchmark manipulation. a benchmark is a standard which is used every day to calculate the price – and risk – of financial instruments such as loans, mortgages, interest rates, swaps etc. prominent benchmarks such as the london inter-bank offered rate have been subject to manipulation by megabanks, either for market gains or to suggest enhanced financial ‘health’. this aim of the regulation was to improve the overall framework for benchmark—setting. however, the trilogue text did not improve on parliament’s text and the proposed regulation contains big loopholes which will allow manipulation to continue. it was for these reasons that i voted against the report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which recommended that the european parliament grants the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014, and also grant a discharge to a number of other bodies. the report contained an accurate and exhaustive analysis of the data which was made available. however, my group requested further information and data to be released from the commission. some 24 amendments were submitted at committee level, of which 22 were adopted. they related primarily to transparency issues, as well as a number of more technical points. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ the report contained a correct and exhaustive analysis of the data made available to the european parliament. it also contained requests for further information and data to be obtained from the commission, especially considering that the commission’s replies remain ambiguous in several aspects. it also regrets the commission’s delay of the review of the eu 2020 strategy, and recalls that a report is to be presented in early 2017. i voted in favour of this report as there were fundamentally positive aspects to it.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors gave a clean opinion on the accounts. they also concluded that the collection of revenue was free from error. however, the estimated error rate for expenditure was 4.4% (compared with 4.5% in 2013). the report states that parliament should not only verify whether funds were spent legally and regularly, but also whether policy objectives were achieved and the principles of sound financial management and a performance culture respected.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amendment 5 which concerns the case of the eu commission fining eight internet financial institutions. the fine was in respect of their participating in illegal cartels in markets for financial derivatives in relation to libor and eurolibor benchmark interest rate fraud. so far no payments have been made and nobody who was affected by this fraud has been reimbursed. the amendment called on the commission to deposit and publish its decision in regard to imposing these fines and to publish the discussion.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as i believe it strengthens the transparency of eu institutions.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which recommended that the european parliament grants the commission a discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the eu for the financial year 2014, and also grant a discharge to a number of other bodies. the report contained an accurate and exhaustive analysis of the data which was made available. however, my group requested further information and data to be released from the commission. some 24 amendments were submitted at committee level, of which 22 were adopted. they related primarily to transparency issues, as well as a number of more technical points. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge. this discharge procedure is not problematic and there are no irregularities of importance to highlight, although there is room for improvement of how the court works. there are no reasons to be against the grant of the discharge and the approval of the accounts.
in writing. ‒ the court of auditors gave the accounts a clean bill of health. they also concluded that the collection of revenue was free from error. however, the estimated error rate for expenditure was 4.4% (compared with 4.5% in 2013). the report states that parliament should not only verify whether funds were spent legally and properly, but also whether policy objectives were achieved and whether the principles of sound financial management and a performance culture were respected.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall, so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution, as the rural development policy, which is included, is the key to fostering competitiveness in agriculture and to ensuring the sustainable management of natural resources, whilst also furthering action against climate change.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report into the discharge of the european development funds – part of parliament’s oversight of spending. the european development fund (edf) funds cooperation activities in the fields of economic development, social and human development as well as regional cooperation and integration. one fourth of the 11th edf’s budget should be earmarked for migration crisis prevention and the management of existing migration flows. however, the error rate for edf expenditure increased three years in a row, from 3% to 3.8%, between 2012 and 2014. in 2013 it stood at the lower rate of 3.4%. regarding supervisory and control systems at europaid’s headquarters and union delegations, the results from the sampling of payment transactions, with 54 of 165 payments (33%) affected by error, show a huge increase in error that is not acceptable. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the main points of this report concern the need powerfully to reinforce the supervision of operations and the management assurance process, especially when it comes to the accountability of heads of union delegations for their management, oversight and reporting duties; the need to ensure more visibility and an overview in devco’s annual activity report on the achievements of the union delegations; and the need to identify better those sectors of activiy where most errors occur and the points at which the highest level of vulnerability is to be found.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i could not agree totally with the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i approved this discharge as it recognizes the benefit of acknowledging errors made, in order to rectify them for the future, which will eventually benefit the receivers of the development fund.
in writing. – this report contained a number of justifiable criticisms of parliament’s president, martin schulz, using the european parliament’s facilities and staff for his campaign during the 2014 elections, an individual who has also meddled in domestic affairs, which is in dereliction of his role as president of the european parliament. the report also focused on a number of practical matters, one primary one of interest is the road map for a single seat for the european parliament instead of shifting to and from strasbourg-brussels every month. sinn féin voted in favour of this point as it would save millions from being pointlessly spent every month. the report also contains a number of recommendations for improving the rights of assistants. the amendments from our group, which we supported, also called for full transparency on general expenditure, with access for citizens, and greater provision for transparency in terms of mep-lobbyist interaction. there was also an roll-call vote on multilingualism and the importance of providing meps, in due time, with all the documents necessary to conduct their work properly in committees, delegations and plenary sessions in any eu official language. in the light of sinn féin’s position on ending the derogation and promoting the irish language, we supported this. we voted in favour of the resolution granting discharge and the closure of accounts to the ep for the 2014 financial year.
in writing. ‒ this report contained a number of justifiable criticisms of parliament’s president, martin schulz, using the european parliament’s facilities and staff for his campaign during the 2014 elections, an individual who has also meddled in domestic affairs, which is in dereliction of his role as president of the european parliament. the report also focused on a number of practical matters, one primary one of interest is the road map for a single seat for the european parliament instead of shifting to and from strasbourg-brussels every month. sinn féin voted in favour of this point as it would save millions from being pointlessly spent every month. the report also contains a number of recommendations for improving the rights of assistants. the amendments from our group, which we supported, also called for full transparency on general expenditure, with access for citizens, and greater provision for transparency in terms of mep-lobbyist interaction. there was also an roll-call vote on multilingualism and the importance of providing meps, in due time, with all the documents necessary to conduct their work properly in committees, delegations and plenary sessions in any eu official language. in the light of sinn féin’s position on ending the derogation and promoting the irish language, we supported this. we voted in favour of the resolution granting discharge and the closure of accounts to the ep for the 2014 financial year.
in writing. ‒ some key points of this draft report are: the fact that the cost of delegations, joint parliamentary assemblies, ad hoc delegations and election observation missions outside the union in 2014 was curbed to eur 1 351 212 following comments by parliament in its discharge resolution for the financial year 2013; criticism of president schulz for his political activities, namely his preparation as a spitzenkandidat and use of his position as the president of the ep for his campaign to head the party of the european socialists in the 2014 european elections; the need for a revision of security measures in parliament and the need for closer cooperation with the belgian, french and luxembourg authorities with regard to this matter.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of granting this discharge as it thoroughly accounts for the activities of parliament.
in writing. – this report contained a number of justifiable criticisms of parliament’s president, martin schulz, using the european parliament’s facilities and staff for his campaign during the 2014 elections, an individual who has also meddled in domestic affairs, which is in dereliction of his role as president of the european parliament. the report also focused on a number of practical matters, one primary one of interest is the road map for a single seat for the european parliament instead of shifting to and from strasbourg-brussels every month. sinn féin voted in favour of this point as it would save millions from being pointlessly spent every month. the report also contains a number of recommendations for improving the rights of assistants. the amendments from our group, which we supported, also called for full transparency on general expenditure, with access for citizens, and greater provision for transparency in terms of mep-lobbyist interaction. there was also an roll-call vote on multilingualism and the importance of providing meps, in due time, with all the documents necessary to conduct their work properly in committees, delegations and plenary sessions in any eu official language. in the light of sinn féin’s position on ending the derogation and promoting the irish language, we supported this. we voted in favour of the resolution granting discharge and the closure of accounts to the ep for the 2014 financial year.
in writing. – i supported the postponement of this discharge as the council continues to refuse to cooperate with the european parliament in the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the postponement of this discharge as the council continues to refuse to cooperate with the european parliament in the discharge procedure.
in writing. ‒ the questionnaire addressed to the council remains unanswered and its secretary general has not replied to the cont invitation to participate in the exchange of views. the rapporteur, mr czarnecki (ecr), stated that the council had proposed - on several occasions in the past - that the two institutions agree on a procedure with regard to the exchange of financial information during the annual discharge. as the council has failed to reply to the questions submitted, the rapporteur for the council's discharge proposes to postpone the 2014 discharge once again.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the parliament´s resolution postponing its decision to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. this is of course not the first time parliament has done so and the reason unfortunately remains the same - since 2009 there has been a continuing lack of cooperation of the council in providing relevant information. as a result, more than €3 billion in public funds have been spent without proper scrutiny. parliament has a right and duty to scrutinise the entire union budget to guarantee transparency and democratic accountability for eu taxpayers and so the council must be transparent and fully accountable to citizens for the funds entrusted to it by taking part in the annual discharge procedure just as other union institutions do. i also want to highlight the resolution´s concern at the lack of transparency of trilogues and conciliation meetings and its call on the council to systematically increase transparency and integrity with regard to the negotiations. this is something that i and the alde group have repeatedly called for in the interests of transparency for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i am in favour of the postponement of the discharge to the council as the council need to be held accountable for their spending, and this can only be done communication between institutions, which in this case was not maintained.
in writing. – i supported the postponement of this discharge as the council continues to refuse to cooperate with the european parliament in the discharge procedure.
in writing. – this concerned the court of justice. i voted in favour of granting discharge and in favour of the resolution as there were no reasons justifying an alternative vote.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is the european parliament's final approval of how a particular european institution’s budget for a specific year has been implemented. the court of justice’s budget is purely administrative, with more than 75 % being used on expenditure concerning persons working within the institution and the remaining on buildings, furniture, equipment and other expenditure. the court of auditors observed that no significant weaknesses had been identified in respect of the audited topics relating to human resources and procurement for the court of justice of the european union. therefore i voted in favour of discharge.
in writing. ‒ discharge is the final approval of how the budget for a specific year has been implemented (following the audit and the finalisation of the annual accounts). it closes a specific budget year. the discharge is granted by the european parliament. before taking its decision, the parliament examines the accounts and the balance sheet as prepared by the relevant agency, the annual report on how the budget has been spent and any relevant special reports by the european court of auditors. the discharge is one of the instruments of the parliament and the council to control the eu budget spending. the european parliament can grant, postpone or refuse a discharge. a granted discharge means the formal closure of the institutional accounts for a given year.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion due to all relevant activities of the court of justice being examined and covered, without any issues arising for me from the result.
in writing. – this concerned the court of justice. i voted in favour of granting discharge and in favour of the resolution as there were no reasons justifying an alternative vote.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge. this discharge procedure is not problematic and there are no irregularities of importance to highlight, despite the room for improvement in how the court works. there are no reasons to be against the grant of discharge and the approval of the accounts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge. this discharge procedure is not problematic and there are no irregularities of importance to highlight, despite the room for improvement in how the court works. there are no reasons to be against the grant of discharge and the approval of the accounts.
in writing. ‒ discharge is the final approval of how the budget for a specific year has been implemented (following the audit and the finalisation of the annual accounts). it closes a specific budget year. the discharge is granted by the european parliament. before taking its decision, the parliament examines the accounts and the balance sheet as prepared by the relevant agency, the annual report on how the budget has been spent and any relevant special reports by the european court of auditors. the discharge is one of the instruments of the parliament and the council to control the eu budget spending. the european parliament can grant, postpone or refuse a discharge. a granted discharge means the formal closure of the institutional accounts for a given year.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it reaffirms observations made on how the court of auditors can become more effective and efficient
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge. this discharge procedure is not problematic and there are no irregularities of importance to highlight, despite the room for improvement in how the court works. there are no reasons to be against the grant of discharge and the approval of the accounts.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is the european parliament's final approval of how a particular european institution’s budget for a specific year has been implemented. the eesc budget is purely administrative, with a large amount being used on expenditure on persons working within the institution and the remaining amount on buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous running costs. the court of auditors concluded that the payments as a whole for the year ended on 31 december 2014 for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies were free from material error. therefore i voted in favour or the discharge.
in writing. ‒ discharge is the final approval of how the budget for a specific year has been implemented (following the audit and the finalisation of the annual accounts). it closes a specific budget year. the discharge is granted by the european parliament. before taking its decision, the parliament examines the accounts and the balance sheet as prepared by the relevant agency, the annual report on how the budget has been spent and any relevant special reports by the european court of auditors. the discharge is one of the instruments of the parliament and the council to control the eu budget spending. the european parliament can grant, postpone or refuse a discharge. a granted discharge means the formal closure of the institutional accounts for a given year.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as did the majority of the parliament. this report clearly highlights the need for more synergy between the eesc, ep and committee of the regions. this would have a positive impact in the formulation of european legislation. in addition to that, the report reiterates the fact that the eesc needs to find further savings in salary costs and especially in travelling expenses. however, there has been savings in the overall eesc budget since 2013 which needs to be acknowledged but further consolidation and rationalisation needs to occur to make the institution more efficient. i am delighted, however, that the gender gap in the eesc did marginally close but as the rapporteur stated, more needs to be done.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as it includes efforts to cut unnecessary costs within the committees budget and i found no problem with the final report.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is the european parliament’s final approval of how a particular european institution’s budget for a specific year has been implemented. the committee’s budget is purely administrative, with a large amount being used for expenditure relating to persons working within the institution and the remaining amount relating to buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous running costs. nevertheless, a total of eur 8 277 556 was spent in 2014 only on travel and meeting allowances for members and alternate members of the committee plus eur 409 100 on missions and travel costs of staff. the number of missions extremely high (787). for these reasons i abstained on the report.
in writing. ‒ discharge is the final approval of how the budget for a specific year has been implemented (following the audit and the finalisation of the annual accounts). it closes a specific budget year. the discharge is granted by the european parliament. before taking its decision, parliament examines the accounts and the balance sheet as prepared by the relevant agency, the annual report on how the budget has been spent and any relevant special reports by the european court of auditors. the discharge is one of the instruments of parliament and the council to control the eu budget spending. the european parliament can grant, postpone or refuse a discharge. a granted discharge means the formal closure of the institutional accounts for a given year.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i could not agree totally with the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for a number of reasons. the rapporteur notes that the committee of the regions’ financial affairs have become more sustainable and it has been able to reduce its annual expenditure from 2014 compared to 2013. likewise, the institution’s appropriation of designated funds is spent according to its purpose at a utilisation rate of 98.5% . unfortunately the institution’s expenses are too high in areas of travel, salaries and missions. the external and internal audit also highlights areas of financial management which could be strengthened such as procurement of services. i was also happy that the rapporteur acknowledges that the committee of the regions needs to achieve greater gender balance, especially in management positions where fewer than 35% of managers are women.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as it calls for more preciseness within the committee’s assessment of their work and i had no problem with the final report.
in writing. – i abstained on this report as there have only been limited improvements in relation to the issues that were raised in last year’s discharge procedure (problems with procurements, a large number of errors in transactions etc.) therefore, i did not feel that i could vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ this discharge procedure is not problematic, despite the various recommendations of enhancement included. an adequate budgeting process and notably a simplification of the budget structure remain a core challenge in the short term to streamline financial circuits and to help the consolidation of the eeas functioning. despite this, there are significant weaknesses in the selected systems and annual activity report.
in writing. ‒ discharge is the final approval of how the budget for a specific year has been implemented (following the audit and the finalisation of the annual accounts). it closes a specific budget year. the discharge is granted by the european parliament. before taking its decision, parliament examines the accounts and the balance sheet as prepared by the relevant agency, the annual report on how the budget has been spent and any relevant special reports by the european court of auditors. the discharge is one of the instruments of parliament and the council to control the eu budget spending. the european parliament can grant, postpone or refuse a discharge. a granted discharge means the formal closure of the institutional accounts for a given year.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i could not agree totally with the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my alde colleagues, voted in favour of this report. the rapporteur has found a balance between the positive elements of the external action service’s appropriation of its budget and some of the concerns with the body’s operation. it was good to see that the court of auditors did not identify any significant weaknesses in the selected systems and annual activity report and that error in their budget was at a very low 0.5%. unfortunately the institution’s budget has grown from 2013-2014. however, it has reduced management at senior level, but such measures need to be further consolidated and the hierarchical nature of the management system needs to become more dynamic. in addition to that, there needs to be a reduction in the number of representatives of member states making up employees, especially at delegation level where representatives from member states make up the most of these positions. gender balance needs to be enhanced, as does the number of people from countries that entered the union in 2004. as it currently stands, employees from these member states do not represent accurately their position in the union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion as i had no problem with the final report and it also urges the eeas to establish closer cooperation, coordination and synergies of activities between the european union delegations and member states’ embassies abroad.
in writing. – i abstained on this report as there have only been limited improvements in relation to the issues that were raised in last year’s discharge procedure (problems with procurements, a large number of errors in transactions etc.) therefore, i did not feel that i could vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is the european parliament’s final approval of how a particular european institution’s budget for a specific year has been implemented. the court of auditors observed that no significant weaknesses had been identified with respect to the audited topics related to human resources and procurement for the european ombudsman. therefore, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ discharge is the final approval of how the budget for a specific year has been implemented (following the audit and the finalisation of the annual accounts). it closes a specific budget year. the discharge is granted by the european parliament. before taking its decision, the parliament examines the accounts and the balance sheet as prepared by the relevant agency, the annual report on how the budget has been spent and any relevant special reports by the european court of auditors. the discharge is one of the instruments of the parliament and the council to control the eu budget spending. the european parliament can grant, postpone or refuse a discharge. a granted discharge means the formal closure of the institutional accounts for a given year.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as it supports the view of greater clarity within the work of the ombudsman, without any problems in the final report.
in writing. ‒ this discharge procedure is not problematic and there are no problems or irregularities of importance to stress. the supervisor’s budget is purely administrative, with a large amount being used for expenditure relating to persons working within the institution and the remaining amount relating to buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous running costs. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ discharge is the final approval of how the budget for a specific year has been implemented (following the audit and the finalisation of the annual accounts). it closes a specific budget year. the discharge is granted by the european parliament. before taking its decision, the parliament examines the accounts and the balance sheet as prepared by the relevant agency, the annual report on how the budget has been spent and any relevant special reports by the european court of auditors. the discharge is one of the instruments of the parliament and the council to control the eu budget spending. the european parliament can grant, postpone or refuse a discharge. a granted discharge means the formal closure of the institutional accounts for a given year.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i am happy to support the committee on budgetary control’s report calling on the parliament to discharge the european data protection supervisor in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2014. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors observed that no significant weaknesses had been identified in respect of the audited topics relating to human resources and procurement for the supervisor and the court concluded that the payments as a whole for the year were free from material error.
in writing. ‒ i supported this budget discharge as it calls on the supervisor to include a list of all contracts awarded in which it has participated, even if launched by other institutions, and their procedures and selection criteria on their website to improve transparency. i found no problems within the finalised report.
in writing. – – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned performance, financial management and control of eu agencies. there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error regarding legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report takes on board the horizontal issues regarding the financial management and control of agencies, rather than having them reproduced in all 32 agency reports. the draft report focuses, inter alia, on issues related to the reliability of accounts, the legality and regularity of transactions, internal controls and budget implementation. a high level of carry-overs is one of the most frequent issues identified as it is usually considered to be at odds with the budgetary principle of annuality. the report notes, however, that those issues often resulted, from events which were, completely or partly, beyond the agencies’ control, or were justified by the multi-annual nature of operations, procurement procedures or projects.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion as it confirms that the agencies need to further strengthen work on their activities and there also appeared to me to be no problems in the report.
in writing. – – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned performance, financial management and control of eu agencies. there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned with the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to the agency for cooperation of energy regulators. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i had no problems with this report, so i approved the discharge as it recommends to improve the integrity of the agency, benefitting all member states.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned with the agency for cooperation of energy regulators (acer). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned with the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec office). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i approve the discharge as it commends the use of internal controls to manage the transparency of institutions and i had no problems with the final report.
liadh ní riada (gue/ngl),in writing. i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge, which was concerned with the office of the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec office). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the translation centre for the bodies of the eu. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i approved the budget discharge for this centre as the final report confirms the work of the centre as being of a high standard, and i found no problems with it.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu’s decentralised agencies, the centre for the development of vocational training. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error regarding legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution granting the director of the european centre for the development of vocational training discharge in respect of the centre’s 2014 budget. cedefop’s budget for the year was eur 17 275 766 - a decrease of 3.62% compared to 2013. the centre’s budget implementation rate was 98.93%, at same level as in 2013 and the payment appropriations execution rate was 95.68%, representing an increase of 3.29% compared with 2013 all of which is positive. cedefop does important work increasing the visibility of vocational education and training in the eu which is particularly important given the continuing challenges of youth unemployment, the refugee and migrant crisis and increasing skills gaps in the eu labour market. the centre’s work on skills forecasts and analyses as well as the work focusing on developing apprenticeships is particularly notable as regards integration into the labour market. also positive is the fact that visits to the europass website, which is managed by the centre, reached 21.7 million users in 2014, representing an increase of 8% on the 2013 figures.
in writing. ‒ i approved this discharge as the centre adhered to the limits of its budget and i had no problem with the final report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european police college (cepol). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european police college. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error regarding legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european police college report. in particular i welcome the prevention and management of conflicts of interests and transparency. it states that the annual reports of the college could play an important role in compliance regarding transparency, accountability and integrity and calls on the college to include a standard chapter on these components in its annual report. it also asks for the adoption of a clear whistleblowing strategy and rules against revolving doors. this reminds the college that it must adopt binding internal rules on whistleblowers under article 22c of the staff regulations, which came into force on 1 january 2014.
in writing. ‒ i had no problem with this report and gave my approval to this discharge as the budget was implemented effectively.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european police college (cepol). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european aviation safety agency (easa)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european aviation safety agency. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european aviation safety agency report. in particular i was happy to see the results of the internal audit. it noted that the commission's internal audit service (ias) performed a review in 2014 with no findings classified as “critical”. of the four findings classified as “very important” raised during three audits performed between 2009 and 2013, the agency took corrective actions related to the recommendations. in 2014 the ias did not perform a formal assessment on the progress made by the agency in the implementation of those recommendations however on the basis of information from the agency in february 2016, the ias reported that all four recommendations based on the findings classified as “very important” were marked as "implemented".
in writing. ‒ i approve this discharge as i had no problems with the budget monitoring efforts which kept the agency running efficiently.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european aviation safety agency (easa)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge. there are no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european asylum support office. sinn féin continuously emphasise the urgency of the refugee crisis and has called on the eu to act and ensure adequate resources. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european asylum support office report. in particular, i favoured the call for an overall improvement in the prevention of, and the fight against, corruption through a holistic approach, commencing with better public access to documents and more stringent rules on conflicts of interest, the introduction or strengthening of transparency registers and the provision of sufficient resources for law enforcement measures, and also through improved cooperation among member states and with relevant third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as it confirms that the office’s budget was legal and regular without any problems in the final report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge. there are no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european asylum support office (easo). my party, sinn féin, has been continuously emphasising the urgency of the refugee situation and has called on the eu act promptly in order to provide the necessary resources required in order to deal with this unprecedented humanitarian crisis. moreover, there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu’s decentralised agencies, the european banking authority. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were fewer problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european banking authority report. in particular, i favoured the call for an overall improvement in the prevention of and the fight against corruption through a holistic approach, commencing with better public access to documents and more stringent rules on conflicts of interest, the introduction or strengthening of transparency registers and the provision of sufficient resources for law enforcement measures, and also through improved cooperation among member states and with relevant third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as it confirms the accounts of the authority were in order, however more work needs to be done within the authority to maintain its integrity. this was established within the final report which i had no problems with.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european asylum support office (easo). my party, sinn féin, has been continuously emphasising the urgency of the refugee situation and has called on the eu to act promptly in order to provide the necessary resources required in order to deal with this unprecedented humanitarian crisis. moreover, there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu’s decentralised agencies, the centre for disease prevention and control. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were fewer problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in particular, i was pleased to read that all reports edited and published by the centre were made available as downloadable documents on the centre’s web portal, as well as the fact that it is increasingly publishing data, graphs, maps and infographics as downloadable assets. i was also pleased to note that in 2014, a new section ‘data and tools’ was added to the centre’s web portal in order to provide a centralised entry point to interactive data, maps and other similar resources.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as there were no problems within the report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge concerning the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european chemicals agency. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in particular i was pleased to see that the prevention of conflicts of interest for committee members is strictly managed by the agency’s procedure on the prevention and management of potential conflicts of interest, including annual declarations of interests and oral declarations at the start of each meeting. of the agency’s four scientific committees set up by its founding regulation which issue formal opinions and recommendations, its experts, almost all of whom are public officials, are nominated or appointed by the member states, while the stakeholders are only allowed to participate as observers.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as there were no problems within the report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european environment agency (eea). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerned the discharge reports related to one of the eu’s decentralised agencies, the european environment agency. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors’ reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in particular, i favour the requests for the agency to implement article 16 of the staff regulations by publishing, on an annual basis, information about senior officials who have left the service, as well as a list of conflicts of interest. i was also pleased to read that the agency has published on its website the declarations of interest of its management in addition to the cvs already published.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to this discharge as i had no problems with the budget implementation.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european environment agency (eea). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european fisheries control agency (efca). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european fisheries control agency. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the efca. in particular, i noted the efforts made by the agency to ensure that control activities are suitably coordinated and structured in the member states, in particular through different steps agreed with the member states and the commission within the framework of the agency’s regional steering groups.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no difficulties with the final report that was proposed.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european fisheries control agency (efca). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european food safety authority. i voted against this report because, despite improvement of its policies on employing people with conflicts of interest, efsa recently appointed the current director of regulation, science and sustainability at the uk industry's trade federation (the food and drink federation), as their director of communications. they have since refused to disclose this person's declaration of interests. until efsa regains some credibility on this matter, i did not believe it appropriate to grant discharge. therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european food safety authority. i voted against this report because, despite improvement of its policies on employing people with conflicts of interest, efsa recently appointed the current director of regulation, science and sustainability at the uk industry's trade federation (the food and drink federation), as their director of communications. they have since refused to disclose this person's declaration of interests. until efsa regains some credibility on this matter, i did not believe it appropriate to grant discharge. therefore i voted against.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was unfavourable overall so i voted against .
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in particular, i welcome the project by the authority to modify the way it screens and processes the annual declarations of interest in order to ensure better coherence and overall compliance with its rules on declarations of interest. furthermore, that this new system, scheduled to be completed in 2016, foresees centralised screening of the annual declarations of interest and transfer of responsibility from the authority’s scientific departments to its legal and regulatory department.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as there were no outstanding problems with the report.
in writing. – according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european food safety authority. i voted against this report because, despite improvement of its policies on employing people with conflicts of interest, efsa recently appointed the current director of regulation, science and sustainability at the uk industry's trade federation (the food and drink federation), as their director of communications. they have since refused to disclose this person's declaration of interests. until efsa regains some credibility on this matter, i did not believe it appropriate to grant discharge. therefore i voted against.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european institute for gender equality (eige). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european institute for gender equality. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. in particular, i was pleased to read that the institute regularly consults the parliament’s committee on women's rights and gender equality on defined topics, through direct contacts with its members or via liaisons and takes part in the commission (eurostat) working groups to explore synergies and to provide advice on technical issues.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had had no problems with their budget report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european institute for gender equality (eige). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european insurance and occupational pensions authority. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the final report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, european institute of innovation and technology. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up. the eit’s emphasis of matter concerns the financial contributions to its grant recipients, which may not exceed the ceiling of 25% of the recipient’s global expenditure. both the court of auditors and the eit, after obtaining the audit certificates of the eit’s grant recipients, confirmed that this ceiling was respected.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i support the committee on budgetary control's report authored by derek vaughan on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european institute of innovation and technology for the financial year 2014. while it has been noted that the eit's budget has increased by approx. 65.54% and the agency has had a high staff turnover rate and instability at management level. i believe that the general recommendations that appear in the draft resolution on performance, financial management and control of eu agencies adequately deals with these issues.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the final report on the implementation of the budget.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european institute of innovation and technology (eit). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european medicines agency (ema)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european medicines agency. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of the committee on budgetary control's report authored by derek vaughan on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency. the work of the ema is vital throughout the eu. however, i also support the general recommendations found in the draft resolution on performance, financial management and control of eu agencies, which notes the increase in in the agency's budget and the agency's revised policy on handling of declarations of interests of scientific committee members and experts.
in writing. ‒ i gave my support to this discharge as i had no problems with the agency's budget report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european medicines agency (ema). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the discharge for the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction. while supporting the discharge, i also note that the centre must adopt binding rules on whistle-blowers so as to prevent and effectively manage conflicts of interests. i also support the draft resolution on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2014 by derek vaughan which observes that final budget of the monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2014 was €15 675 036 representing a decrease of 3.88 % compared to 2013 and that 26% of administrative expenditure was carried over because due to multiannual projects.
in writing. ‒ approved this discharge as no problems for me, arose from the report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european maritime safety agency (emsa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european maritime safety agency. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court's reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ european maritime safety agency's work in contributing to maritime safety, preventing of ship pollution in europe, and assisting member states and the commission under international and union law is of paramount importance. i support its collaboration with european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction in the area of human resources and ict is of huge practical significance. for those reasons i have voted in favour of this discharge. however, i am seriously concerned with the staff reduction and budgetary cuts which became applicable in 2014. other than that, i welcome the agency's collaboration with other european agencies especially regarding the current refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i approved this discharge as no problems for me, arose from this report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european maritime safety agency (emsa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european union agency for network and information security. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i support the budgetary discharge for the european union agency for network and information security. the agency's internal policies improving cost effectiveness and the environmental friendliness of its facilities and is important step towards satisfying both requirements of a “paperless” platform serving as workflow and storage of internal documents and is particularly reassuring.
in writing. ‒ supported this discharge as it contributed to the transparency of this agency and i had no problems arise from the report.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ while i support the 2014 discharge for the european railway agency, i would reiterate the following observations found in the draft resolution on performance, financial management and control of eu agencies. the era ensures the safety and interoperability of the european rail system, but if it receives further responsibilities it will need to be given the necessary financial, material and human resources to perform its new and additional tasks effectively and efficiently. i encourage the agency to collaborate with member states to increase the number and quality of railway projects throughout the european union, which would support an ever closer union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as there were no problems for me, within the report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european securities and markets authority (esma). my party have a number of concerns with the composition of this body and we have critical concerns about the huge democratic deficit which defines these regulatory bodies. there is a huge democratic deficit running through these bodies and moreover, a number of legal concerns have been voiced.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european securities and markets authority. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i supported the discharge of the european securities and markets authority as it plays a vital role in the financial stability of the eu. although i support the work of esma, it is important to note that the authority inherited a number of it framework contracts from its predecessor body, the committee of european securities regulators (cesr) and that those contracts were not replaced with timely calls for tender which led to two contracts being extended beyond their original duration. this resulted in the authority procuring it services, furniture and stationery for the amount of eur 956 000 for 2014 which was not in compliance with the financial regulation. esma should take careful measures to ensure administration of the authority operates effectively.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i found that i had no problem with the report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european securities and markets authority (esma). my party have a number of concerns with the composition of this body and we have critical concerns about the huge democratic deficit which defines these regulatory bodies. there is a huge democratic deficit running through these bodies and moreover, a number of legal concerns have been voiced.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european training foundation (etf). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european training foundation. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ the european training foundation operates in a dynamic environment which requires a high level of flexibility in continually updating and adjusting its activities to meet expected results in the delivery of support to partner countries. the work that it has performed in the area of migration and skills has been noteworthy. i support my colleagues in encouraging the foundation to better raise awareness of the conflict-of-interest policy among its staff, alongside ongoing awareness-raising activities and the inclusion of integrity and transparency as an obligatory item to be discussed during recruitment procedures and performance reviews. i have therefore voted in favour of the above discharge.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with its contents.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european training foundation (etf). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom justice and security. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up. in the case of eu-lisa, the emphasis of matter concerns the valuation of the sis ii, vis and eurodac systems which were recorded in the agency’s accounts at their net book values as per the commission’s internal accounting rules, upon the establishment of the agency. there was no action that the agency had to or could have performed in this respect to address the issue, which is to become immaterial in the year 2015 due to the yearly depreciation of asset value.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of the above discharge. however, i think that it is important to raise my concerns with some of the general recommendations which appear in the draft resolution on performance, financial management and control of eu agencies, particularly the issues related to the valuation of the sis ii, vis and eurodac systems in the agency’s accounts. there should be, within the agency, an overall improvement in the prevention of, and the fight against, corruption through a holistic approach, commencing with better public access to documents and more stringent rules on conflicts of interest, the introduction or strengthening of transparency registers and the provision of sufficient resources for law enforcement measures, and also through improved cooperation among member states and with relevant third countries.
in writing. ‒ i supported this project as no problems presented themselves to me on the agencies budget.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european agency for the operational management of large-scale it systems in the area of freedom, security and justice (eu-lisa)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european agency for safety and health at work. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution granting the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the agency’s 2014 budget. the final budget of the agency for 2014 was eur 17 256 026, representing a decrease of 1.17% compared to 2013. the level of committed appropriations carried over to 2015 for title ii (administrative expenditure) was eur 443 412 or 34% but i note that this mainly relates to the purchase of goods and services, as planned, in connection with the agency’s fitting out of its new premises, the renewal of annual it contracts and the cost of audit services. the agency’s move to its new premises was fully implemented in 2014 and gives the staff more space and better working conditions as well as better meeting facilities for visitors and importantly has resulted in substantial savings on rent as well. also positive is the key role the agency is playing in the implementation of the eu strategic framework on health and safety at work 2014 to 2020 as well as the work it has done through its healthy workplaces campaign to strengthen risk prevention and promote sustainable and healthy workplaces.
in writing. ‒ i approved this discharge as no problems for me, arose from the report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european agency for safety and health at work (eu-osha). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the euratom supply agency (esa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european supply agency. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ the decision to support the 2014 budgetary discharge for the euratom supply agency was an easy one to make. the agency has an appropriate risk management and control strategy in place and it has taken all necessary actions on risk assessment and risk mitigation to align its internal control system with the court of auditors’ requirements.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the euratom supply agency (esa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, the parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu's decentralised agencies, the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution granting the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions discharge in respect of the foundation’s 2014 budget. the final budget of the foundation for the year 2014 was eur 20 774 000 representing an increase of 0.73% compared to 2013. i note the high level of committed appropriations carried over to 2015 at 53.7% for title iii (operational expenditure) although these carry-overs related mainly to multi-annual projects, whose activities were implemented and payments were made on schedule. i am pleased that, although not concluded in 2014, negotiations between the foundation and the host member state, ireland, on a seat agreement were concluded last year which should promote transparency regarding the conditions under which the foundation and its staff operate. as a member of the employment committee i would also reiterate the resolution’s appreciation for the three european surveys and the wider research provided by the foundation, its contribution to assessing the impact of the crisis on working and living conditions and its key importance for ensuring evidence-based discussions on social and work-related policies, youth unemployment and social cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i approved this discharge as i had no problems with its contents.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european union’s judicial cooperation unit (eurojust)there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu’s decentralised agencies, the european union judicial and cooperation unit. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i support my colleague, mr derek vaughan, in his report regarding the budgetary discharge of the european union’s judicial cooperation unit, 2014. i recognise the ongoing issue identified by the court of auditors in 2011 regarding the overlap of responsibilities between the administrative director and the college of eurojust which can only be resolved by the legislative authorities in the ongoing legislative proposal for a new eurojust regulation. i believe that this proposal should be adopted in line with the proposed regulation to create a european public prosecutor. i also urge the council to proceed with the necessary reforms in these proposals. i support the proposal that common rules governing the pursuit of lobbying activities within the union institutions and agencies should be introduced, so as to tackle ethical issues relating to the political role of lobbies, their practices and their influence and to promote safeguards for integrity, in order to raise the level of transparency of lobbying activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the report
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european union’s judicial cooperation unit (eurojust). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european police office (europol). my party have a number of critical concerns with europol and the manner in which it operates. however, as there were no specific irregularities arising explicit to this report, i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu’s decentralised agencies, the european police office (europol). the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i was glad to support the 2014 discharge for europol. i recognise that europol has reviewed its financial regulation to bring it in line with the provisions contained in commission delegated regulation (eu) no 1271/2013 and should be commended for such action. however, i note that the office should pay special attention to the protection of whistleblowers in the context of the soon-to-be-adopted directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure. in this regard, the office should strive to maintain a high standard of management and administration.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as no problems arose from the europol office that affected my opinion.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european police office (europol) my party have a number of critical concerns with europol and the manner in which it operates. however, as there were no specific irregularities arising explicit to this report, i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu’s decentralised agencies, the european union agency for fundamental rights. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports. two agencies, eit and eu-lisa have, however, been given an ‘emphasis of matter’ and were marked for follow up.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ since an independent evaluation of the fra was undertaken in 2012, the agency has aimed to enhance its contribution at a national level. it has been proactive in this respect and more so in its budgetary implementation, which stands at 100%. for these reasons i have supported the above discharge.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the outcome.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union also known as frontex. my party have a number of concerns with frontex. the body is meant to assist with of border management within europe but have been an unmitigated disaster. only last year, they had their budget increased by 54% but human disasters continue to occur. this shows that the money is there to tackle the problem but it is the way in which the problem is being tackled that is not effective enough. however, as there were no specific irregularities arising explicit to this report, i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union also known as frontex. my party have a number of concerns with frontex. the body is meant to assist with of border management within europe but has been an unmitigated disaster. only last year, they had their budget increased by 54% but human disasters continue to occur. this shows that the money is there to tackle the problem but it is the way in which the problem is being tackled that is not effective enough. however, as there were no specific irregularities arising explicit to this report, i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the discharge for the frontex agency. it should be noted that while i support the discharge, i believe that it is worth noting that the documentation supporting the expenditure claimed by cooperating countries under grant agreements is not always sufficient. the high and constantly increasing number of grant agreements, as well as the magnitude of related expenditure to be verified and reimbursed by the agency, indicate that a more efficient and cost-effective alternative funding mechanism could be used to finance the agency’s operational activities.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i had no problems with its contents.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union also known as frontex. my party have a number of concerns with frontex. the body is meant to assist with of border management within europe but has been an unmitigated disaster. only last year, they had their budget increased by 54% but human disasters continue to occur. this shows that the money is there to tackle the problem, but it is the way in which the problem is being tackled that is not effective enough. however, as there were no specific irregularities arising explicit to this report, i voted in favour of granting this discharge.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european gnss agency (gsa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. ‒ according to the treaties, parliament has a right of scrutiny of the legality and regularity of the operating expenditure of the institutions and agencies every year. the main goal of the discharge procedure is to ensure that public funds are used in the best possible way. this vote concerns the discharge reports related to one of the eu’s decentralised agencies, the european gnss agency. the overall conclusion in the vaughan reports is that the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and the transactions tested were free from material error of legality and regularity. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ these are the annual discharge reports on the agencies following the presentation of the european court of auditors reports for the 2014 financial year. the number of decentralised agencies concerned by the discharge is 32. the european court of auditors gave an unqualified (positive) opinion to all agencies concerning the reliability of their accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the court of auditors noted that overall there were less problems with agencies than in previous years and as such not as many comments were required in the court’s reports.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ global navigational satellites systems are often overlooked in their utility. gsa manages a vital service for european citizens. i believe that it is important to note that the agency has no insurance coverage for fixed tangible assets with a net book value of eur 1 000 000. i acknowledge that the agency is currently analysing risks, value and criticality of each asset owned in order to assess the type of insurance which would suit its requirements. i encourage the agency to update the discharge authority on the progress made. nevertheless, i support the proposed discharge.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report because i believed there were no problems with the outcome of its contents.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the granting of this discharge which was concerned with the european gnss agency (gsa). there were no special irregularities which would justify a postponement.
in writing. – the discharge procedure is the european parliament’s final approval of how a particular european institution’s budget for a specific year has been implemented. the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. in the case of the artemis technology research undertaking, financial rules were not amended to comply with the latest financial regulations applicable to ppps. therefore i voted to postpone the discharge decision until september and in favour of the resolution to this effect.
in writing. ‒ the discharge procedure is the european parliament’s final approval of how a particular european institution’s budget for a specific year has been implemented. the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. in the case of the armetis technology research undertaking, financial rules were not amended to comply with the latest financial regulations applicable to ppps. therefore i voted to postpone the discharge decision until september and in favour of the resolution to this effect.
in writing. ‒ artemis and eniac joint undertakings concluded administrative agreements with the nfas of the member states, which continue to apply after the merger of the artemis and eniac joint undertakings into the ecsel joint undertaking. these arrangements provide for ex-post audits of these payments being delegated to the nfas that will perform audits on behalf of the joint undertaking. the artemis and eniac joint undertakings’ ex-post audit strategy relied heavily on the nfas to audit project cost claims.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ while i support this discharge, i would like to draw attention to the court of auditors’ report on the joint undertaking’s annual accounts for the financial year 2014 in relation to the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions on the grounds that the administrative agreements signed with the national funding authorities (nfas) regarding the audit of project cost claims which do not include practical arrangements for ex-post audits. the joint undertaking did not assess the quality of the audit reports received from the nfas concerning the costs relating to completed projects. i would therefore invite the court of auditors to collect additional and necessary documents and information as an alternative way to justify the opinion found in its report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the report.
in writing. – the discharge procedure is the european parliament’s final approval of how a particular european institution’s budget for a specific year has been implemented. the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. in the case of the armetis technology research undertaking, financial rules were not amended to comply with the latest financial regulations applicable to ppps. therefore i voted to postpone the discharge decision until september and in favour of the resolution to this effect.
in writing. – the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. on the clean sky joint undertaking, while the annual accounts were found to accurately respect the financial position and transactions, there was a lack of information regarding the ex-post audits. for these reasons i voted in favour of granting the discharge, but abstained on the closure of accounts.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. on the clean sky joint undertaking, while the annual accounts were found to accurately respect the financial position and transactions, there was a lack of information regarding the ex-post audits. for these reasons i voted in favour of granting the discharge, but abstained on the closure of accounts.
in writing. ‒ clean sky, fch, imi and iter obtained a clean opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i could not agree totally with the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour for this discharge. i would like to note that i concur that the court of auditors’ report is based on too many general remarks to the detriment of viable, specific ones; therefore call for an audit with a sharper focus on the annual financial performance and on the results and their implementation. further, i welcome the publication by the joint undertaking of the report on the socio-economic impact of the clean sky activities and the signature of a memorandum of cooperation with the sesar joint undertaking, aimed at strengthening links and reinforcing synergies.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the report.
in writing. – the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. on the clean sky joint undertaking, while the annual accounts were found to accurately respect the financial position and transactions, there was a lack of information regarding the ex-post audits. for these reasons i voted in favour of granting the discharge, but abstained on the closure of accounts.
in writing. – the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. this ju was aimed at implementing the joint technology initiative on ‘electronic components and systems for european leadership’. although the accounts present material aspects and the financial position fairly, there was an absence of information regarding in-kind and cash contribution. therefore i voted in favour of the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. this ju was aimed at implementing the joint technology initiative on ‘electronic components and systems for european leadership’. although the accounts present material aspects and the financial position fairly, there was an absence of information regarding in-kind and cash contribution. therefore i voted in favour of the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ eca’s report on the annual accounts for the financial year 2014 – together with the joint undertaking’s replies – states that: artemis, escel, eniac have received a qualified opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts. ecsel has taken over the projects of the artemis and eniac joint undertakings. the payments made under these projects by ecsel joint undertaking from 27 june to 31 december 2014 – against certificates of acceptance of costs issued by the national funding authorities (nfas) of the member states – amounted to eur 12.6 million, which represents 48% of the total payments made by the joint undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i could not agree totally with the discharge.
in writing. ‒ it should be recalled that the joint undertaking was established to replace and succeed the eniac joint undertaking (eniac) and the artemis joint undertaking (artemis) under council regulation (ec) no 561/2014. i agree that there should be an audit with a closer focus on the annual financial performance on the implementation status of multiannual projects, including a clear presentation of the implementation of the budget for the respective year and for previous years, and their results and implementation. i note that the information provided in the joint undertaking’s report on budgetary and financial management for the financial year 2014 lacked harmonisation and was often incomplete. following these observations, i would like to express my support for the budgetary discharge.
in writing. – the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. this ju was aimed at implementing the joint technology initiative on ‘electronic components and systems for european leadership’. although the accounts present material aspects and the financial position fairly, there was an absence of information regarding in-kind and cash contribution. therefore i voted in favour of the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. – this ju was set up for the development of nano-electronics across different areas. while the accounts fairly represent its financial position, different methodologies used by the national funding authorities (nfas) mean that there is a lack of information on certain aspects. for this reason i voted to postpone the discharge procedure pending more precise information.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. this ju was set up for the development of nano-electronics across different areas. while the accounts fairly represent its financial position, different methodologies used by the national funding authorities (nfas) mean that there is a lack of information on certain aspects. for this reason i voted to postpone the discharge procedure pending more precise information.
in writing. ‒ artemis and eniac joint undertakings concluded administrative agreements with the nfas of the member states, which continue to apply after the merger of the artemis and eniac joint undertakings into the ecsel joint undertaking. these arrangements provide for ex-post audits of these payments being delegated to the nfas that will perform audits on behalf of the joint undertaking. the artemis and eniac joint undertakings’ ex-post audit strategy relied heavily on the nfas to audit project cost claims.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ i support the discharge for the eniac joint undertaking’s 2014 budget. i believe that it is appropriate to note that the joint undertaking’s final budget for the financial year 2014 included commitment appropriations of eur 2 356 000 and payment appropriations of eur 76 500 250. the initial budget for 2014 included only commitment appropriations for running costs amounting to eur 2 300 000 and that budget did not include commitment appropriations for operational activities, with a low utilisation rate for administrative commitment appropriations of 43%. the lack of information regarding in-kind and cash contributions is therefore regrettable. in future reports, concrete provisions regarding the evaluation procedure and the level of in kind and cash paid contributions should be included in the court of auditors’ reports.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this discharge as i supported the postponement of the discharge as i believed more information was needed on the project’s implementation in member states.
in writing. – this ju was set up for the development of nano-electronics across different areas. while the accounts fairly represent its financial position, different methodologies used by the national funding authorities (nfas) mean that there is a lack of information on certain aspects. for this reason i voted to postpone the discharge procedure pending more precise information.
in writing. – this ju is aimed at facilitating efforts towards deployment of fuel cells and hydrogen technologies. again, there was a lack of information regarding ex-post audits and in-kind and cash contributions. therefore i voted in favour of granting the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of european research, science and technology. this ju is aimed at facilitating efforts towards deployment of fuel cells and hydrogen technologies. again, there was a lack of information regarding ex-post audits and in-kind and cash contributions. therefore i voted in favour of granting the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ clean sky, fch, imi and iter obtained a clean opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i could not agree totally with the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i supported the closure of the accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 although, i, like the rapporteur, would like to see progress made with regard to the appropriation of funds in the future. as the report notes, the court of auditors’ assessment is based on too many general remarks to the detriment of viable, specific ones. therefore an audit more focused on the annual financial performance, on the implementation status of multiannual projects and on the results and their implementation. in addition, the information provided by the joint undertaking in its own report lacked harmonisation and was often incomplete. the commission is therefore called upon to provide guidance as to the nature and content of the report. the budget execution by year end for all fund sources reached 98.48% as regards commitment appropriations and 74.52% in terms of payment executions. in the absence of a clear separation between fp7 and horizon 2020, implementation-related information, those indicators do not assure a real evaluation of performance. therefore the court of auditors needs to include in future reports information regarding the execution of the budget under fp7 and horizon 2020 under separate headings.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the report.
in writing. – this ju is aimed at facilitating efforts towards deployment of fuel cells and hydrogen technologies. again, there was a lack of information regarding ex-post audits and in-kind and cash contributions. therefore i voted in favour of granting the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. – this joint undertaking is aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process for the production of safer innovative medicines. while the accounts gave a fair representation of the joint undertaking’s financial position, the ex-ante control performed by the joint undertaking's scientific project officers (spo) did not clearly identify and comment upon the status of the project and its deliverables, and payment was made without an official listing of deliverables accepted by the spo and without any reference to the assessment of deliverables by the spo. therefore i voted in favour of discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ the joint undertakings are european commission initiatives. they were set up as public-private partnerships aimed at mobilising and pooling european, national and private efforts, including private industry capital, to develop activities in the field of the european research, science and technology. this joint undertaking is aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process for the production of safer innovative medicines. while the accounts gave a fair representation of the joint undertaking’s financial position, the ex-ante control performed by the joint undertaking’s scientific project officers (spo) did not clearly identify and comment upon the status of the project and its deliverables, and payment was made without an official listing of deliverables accepted by the spo and without any reference to the assessment of deliverables by the spo. therefore i voted in favour of discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ clean sky, fch, imi and iter obtained a clean opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i could not agree totally with the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, as did the majority of members. imi 2 was set up to finish the work carried out by imi 1 with the aim of significantly improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process with the long-term aim that the pharmaceutical sector produces more effective and safer innovative medicines. this is a vital role, considering the difficulties many member states are facing with access to affordable medicines. however, the funds by the joint undertaking are not utilised in a good enough manner. the rapporteur acknowledges this and calls for greater utilisation of appropriated funds. likewise, the court of auditors report is based on too many general remarks, to the detriment of viable, specific ones. i am glad that the report calls for an audit with a sharper focus on the annual financial performance, on the implementation status of multi-annual projects and on the results and their implementation. likewise, the report also rightly highlights the decrease in the overall implementation rate, which went from 99.5% in 2013 to 92.4% in 2014 for commitment appropriations and 97.5% for 2013 to 73.0% in 2014 for payment appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the report.
in writing. – this joint undertaking (ju) is aimed at improving the efficiency and effectiveness of the drug development process for the production of safer innovative medicines. while the accounts gave a fair representation of the joint undertaking’s financial position, the ex-ante control performed by the joint undertaking’s scientific project officers (spo) did not clearly identify and comment upon the status of the project and its deliverables, and payment was made without an official listing of deliverables accepted by the spo and without any reference to the assessment of deliverables by the spo. therefore i voted in favour of discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. – this joint undertaking concerns cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion. in this case, there were clear and enormous overruns, excessive delays and very poor procedures regarding organisation. in addition, discussions on viability, the possibility of spread and distribution of this kind of energy, and the cost in comparison with other sustainable and renewable energy sources, were not present. for these reasons i voted to postpone the grant of the discharge and abstained on the approval of the accounts.
in writing. ‒ this joint undertaking concerns cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion. in this case, there were clear and enormous overruns, excessive delays and very poor procedures regarding organisation. in addition, discussions on viability, the possibility of spread and distribution of this kind of energy, and the cost in comparison with other sustainable and renewable energy sources, were not present. for these reasons i voted to postpone the grant of the discharge and abstained on the approval of the accounts.
in writing. ‒ clean sky, fch, imi and iter obtained a clean opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
in writing. ‒ the discharge report was favourable overall so i voted for.
in writing. ‒ like the majority of parliament, i supported the postponement of the decision on granting the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014, because of the poor financial management outlined by the court of auditors. it is unacceptable for any undertaking which is funded by eu monies to be grossly mismanaged. the figure proposed is double the initial budgeted costs for this phase of the project and did not include eur 663 million proposed by the commission in 2010 to cover potential contingencies. although the organization set up a reserve fund with the aim of providing a clearer mechanism that compensates the domestic agencies for design changes, solutions to minimise costs in an attempt to rectify the weakness identified by 2013 iter management assessment must be implemented first. the significant increase of the project costs may also put in danger other programmes which are also financed by the union budget and may be contradictory to the ‘value—for—money’ principle.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of postponement of the discharge as decisive action still needs to be decided upon.
in writing. – this joint undertaking concerns cooperation agreements with euratom in the field of controlled nuclear fusion. in this case, there were clear and enormous overruns, excessive delays and very poor procedures regarding organisation. in addition, discussions on viability, the possibility of spread and distribution of this kind of energy, and the cost in comparison with other sustainable and renewable energy sources, were not present. for these reasons i voted to postpone the grant of the discharge and abstained on the approval of the accounts.
in writing. – this ju was set up to run the single european sky air traffic management research programme aimed at modernising air traffic management. as there was a lack of information regarding ex-post audits, and limited information regarding in-kind/cash contributions, i voted to grant the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ this ju was set up to run the single european sky air traffic management research programme aimed at modernising air traffic management. as there was a lack of information regarding ex-post audits, and limited information regarding in-kind/cash contributions, i voted to grant the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. ‒ clean sky, fch, imi and iter obtained a clean opinion on the legality and regularity of the transactions underlying the accounts.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because i could not agree totally with the discharge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report especially after the court of auditors issued a statement of assurance as to the reliability of the accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions for the financial year 2014. the utilisation of funds by sesar was at 99.4%. however, the report does note the lack of information regarding the ex-post audits performed by sesar and sesar2. the court of auditors need to include, in the future reports, information regarding the number of ex-post audits, the total amounts covered and the findings for greater accountability of eu monies spent. with that being said, it needs to be acknowledged that the joint undertaking plays a vital role in coordinating and implementing research into the sesar project, which is a pillar project of the single european sky and should be implemented to manage europe’s skies more efficiently.
in writing. ‒ i supported this discharge as i had no problems with the report.
in writing. – this ju was set up to run the single european sky air traffic management research programme aimed at modernising air traffic management. as there was a lack of information regarding ex-post audits, and limited information regarding in-kind/cash contributions, i voted to grant the discharge but abstained on the approval of accounts.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which provided a critical view especially on the infrastructure projects. only this week i have called on the irish government to implement funding they have drawn down from the european investment bank for the building of social housing in ireland. in ireland, our homeless crisis has reached epidemic status and we urgently need the spiralling housing crisis to be addressed as a matter of priority. however, let me be clear that my party retains grave concerns about how the eib operates in practice. there is a clear democratic deficit which permeates the eib and it is clear that the eib prioritises large corporations from the north of europe, acting as a client-driven bank rather than serving its developing objectives. sinn féin will continue to ensure that projects which are supported by the eib do not contribute to unsustainable development, by fuelling environmental destruction, climate change and depletion of natural resources. infrastructure and energy projects, which represent an important part of the eib portfolio, have huge potential to cause environmental and social damage. my party will continue to actively call for reform on matters such as these.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which provided a critical view especially on the infrastructure projects. only this week i have called on the irish government to implement funding they have drawn down from the european investment bank for the building of social housing in ireland. in ireland, our homeless crisis has reached epidemic status and we urgently need the spiralling housing crisis to be addressed as a matter of priority. however, let me be clear that my party retains grave concerns about how the eib operates in practice. there is a clear democratic deficit which permeates the eib and it is clear that the eib prioritises large corporations from the north of europe, acting as a client-driven bank rather than serving its developing objectives. sinn féin will continue to ensure that projects which are supported by the eib do not contribute to unsustainable development, by fuelling environmental destruction, climate change and depletion of natural resources. infrastructure and energy projects, which represent an important part of the eib portfolio, have huge potential to cause environmental and social damage. my party will continue to actively call for reform on matters such as these.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which acknowledges the role of the european investment bank in its task of financially supporting a variety of projects in the eu and which focuses on continued cooperation between the eib and the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i had no problems with the outcomes of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report which acknowledges the role of the eib in its task of financially supporting projects in the union. it also supports continued dialogue between the eib and the european parliament.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which provided a critical view especially on the infrastructure projects. only this week i have called on the irish government to implement funding they have drawn down from the european investment bank for the building of social housing in ireland. in ireland, our homeless crisis has reached epidemic status and we urgently need the spiralling housing crisis to be addressed as a matter of priority. however, let me be clear that my party retains grave concerns about how the eib operates in practice. there is a clear democratic deficit which permeates the eib and it is clear that the eib prioritises large corporations from the north of europe, acting as a client-driven bank rather than serving its developing objectives. sinn féin will continue to ensure that projects which are supported by the eib do not contribute to unsustainable development, by fuelling environmental destruction, climate change and depletion of natural resources. infrastructure and energy projects, which represent an important part of the eib portfolio, have huge potential to cause environmental and social damage. my party will continue to actively call for reform on matters such as these.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this joint resolution which is seeking to condemn the breaches of international humanitarian law which are being carried out globally. it must not be forgotten that, during the so-called operation protection edge in gaza in 2014, the israeli military shelled an intensive care unit of a palestinian hospital. this is not the first hospital that israel has destroyed, but the shelling of an intensive care unit is particularly reprehensible as it is attacking the most vulnerable in our society. israel and others have acted and are acting with impunity for these flagrant breaches of international humanitarian law and violations of the human rights of millions of civilians worldwide. there needs to be a strong voice coming from the irish government condemning the ongoing breaches of international humanitarian law. without a strong voice from the international community to join in a loud condemnation of these countries belligerent crimes against humanity and gross violations of international law, including article 33 of the fourth geneva convention prohibiting collective punishment and article 48 forbidding military actions against civilian populations and infrastructure, then these aggressors will of course, will continue to act with impunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution which is seeking to condemn the breaches of international humanitarian law which are being carried out globally. it must not be forgotten that, during the so-called operation protection edge in gaza in 2014, the israeli military shelled an intensive care unit of a palestinian hospital. this is not the first hospital that israel has destroyed, but the shelling of an intensive care unit is particularly reprehensible as it is attacking the most vulnerable in our society. israel and others have acted and are acting with impunity for these flagrant breaches of international humanitarian law and violations of the human rights of millions of civilians worldwide. there needs to be a strong voice coming from the irish government condemning the ongoing breaches of international humanitarian law. without a strong voice from the international community to join in a loud condemnation of these countries belligerent crimes against humanity and gross violations of international law, including article 33 of the fourth geneva convention prohibiting collective punishment and article 48 forbidding military actions against civilian populations and infrastructure, then these aggressors will of course, will continue to act with impunity. .
in writing. ‒ the motion for a resolution focuses on attacks against hospitals and schools occurring in armed conflicts around the world, with patients, students, medical and teaching staff, humanitarian aid workers, children and family members becoming targets and victims. it expresses the opinion that international condemnations must be followed by independent investigations and genuine accountability for all actors involved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution that expresses our shock and grave concern at the deadly attacks against hospitals, schools and other civilian targets that are occurring at an increasingly alarming rate in armed conflicts around the world, with patients, students, medical and teaching staff, humanitarian aid workers, children and family members becoming targets and victims. it calls on the conflicting parties in conflicts to respect the basic principles of international humanitarian law and refrain from deliberately targeting civilian infrastructures. furthermore, it asks the eu and its member states to call on the un and the un security council to guarantee the protection of both local and international humanitarian workers.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from this vote as reproductive rights is a matter of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for resolution which condemns attacks on hospitals and schools.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this joint resolution which is seeking to condemn the breaches of international humanitarian law which are being carried out globally. it must not be forgotten that, during the so-called operation protection edge in gaza in 2014, the israeli military shelled an intensive care unit of a palestinian hospital. this is not the first hospital that israel has destroyed, but the shelling of an intensive care unit is particularly reprehensible as it is attacking the most vulnerable in our society. israel and others have acted and are acting with impunity for these flagrant breaches of international humanitarian law and violations of the human rights of millions of civilians worldwide. there needs to be a strong voice coming from the irish government condemning the ongoing breaches of international humanitarian law. without a strong voice from the international community to join in a loud condemnation of these countries belligerent crimes against humanity and gross violations of international law, including article 33 of the fourth geneva convention prohibiting collective punishment and article 48 forbidding military actions against civilian populations and infrastructure, then these aggressors will of course, will continue to act with impunity.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with access to documents. my colleague matt carthy recently attended the ttip reading room where he had to sign a confidentiality agreement swearing never to divulge the information, where his phone was taken from him and where he was accompanied into the room by an official, who remained in the reading room for the duration. not to have access to information or limited access to such flies in the face of democracy and is an insult to the citizens who elect meps to represent them in europe. moreover, the report criticised lack of clarity in international dealings and the lack of transparency of ecb, eib and eu institutions. my party have been very vocal on the fact that the effectiveness of eu law is systematically undermined by the eu routinely ignoring every legal and constitutional obstacle in its way in order to increase its supranational power. this lack of transparency, democracy and accountability has led to a widespread lack of trust and confidence in the aims and objectives of the european union. therefore, as the report progressively tackled these matters, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of thus report which was concerned with access to documents. i recently attended the ttip secret reading room where i was allowed to consult ttip consolidated chapters, under the condition that i not divulge any information i had read. my phone was taken from me and i was accompanied into the room by an official, who remained in the reading room the entire time. not having proper access to this important information flies in the face of democracy and is an insult to the citizens who elect meps to represent them in europe. this report criticises the lack of clarity in international dealings and the lack of transparency of ecb, eib and eu institutions. my party have been very vocal on the fact that the effectiveness of eu law is systematically undermined by the eu routinely ignoring every legal and constitutional obstacle in its way in order to increase its supranational power. this lack of transparency, democracy and accountability has led to a widespread lack of trust and confidence in the aims and objectives of the european union. therefore, as the report progressively tackled these matters, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the right of access to documents of the european union’s institutions, bodies, offices and agencies is enshrined in article 15 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. general principles and limits on grounds of public or private interest governing this right have been set out in regulation (ec) no 1049/2001. on top of that each institution, body, office or agency shall incorporate in its own rules of procedure specific provisions regarding access to its documents to ensure transparency of its proceedings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report that highlights progress and deficiencies and makes recommendations in the field of public access to documents. public access to documents is regulated by regulation (ec) no 1049/2001, revision of which has been stuck in council since 2008. alde has taken a lead position, advocating for a revision of this regulation and a proactive and enlarged application of the concept of public access to documents, in line with our priorities towards transparency. public access to documents is a vital element of transparency policies and should contribute to restoring citizens’ trust in the eu institutions and their decision-making process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as it is a measure which will help to open up the internal workings of the eu to the public.
in writing. ‒ i support this report that acknowledges citizens’ right of access to the institutions’ documents while also acknowledging each institution’s internal rules on transparency.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with access to documents. my colleague matt carthy recently attended the ttip reading room where he had to sign a confidentiality agreement swearing never to divulge the information, where his phone was taken from him and where he was accompanied into the room by an official, who remained in the reading room for the duration. not to have access to information or limited access to such flies in the face of democracy and is an insult to the citizens who elect meps to represent them in europe. moreover, the report criticised lack of clarity in international dealings and the lack of transparency of ecb, eib and eu institutions. my party have been very vocal on the fact that the effectiveness of eu law is systematically undermined by the eu routinely ignoring every legal and constitutional obstacle in its way in order to increase its supranational power. this lack of transparency, democracy and accountability has led to a widespread lack of trust and confidence in the aims and objectives of the european union. therefore, as the report progressively tackled these matters, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which calls for legislative instruments to recognise the employment and social rights of domestic workers and carers who are very often undeclared and therefore lack job stability, paid leave and have very limited or non-existent employment rights. according to the international labour organization, 85% of domestic workers and carers are women and this report aims to ensure that there are no more second-class, low-paid, undeclared female workers in the eu. furthermore, in ireland migrant women are particularly vulnerable to exploitation by unscrupulous employers. a report last summer by the fundamental rights agency indicated that working in domestic households was identified as the major area for severe labour exploitation in ireland. it is very disconcerting that young, migrant women working as au pairs in ireland are still vulnerable to exploitation as there is no official recognition of au pairs in ireland. this report is an important step forward in recognising and protecting the rights of domestic workers and carers and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for legislative instruments to recognise the employment and social rights of domestic workers and carers who are very often undeclared and therefore lack job stability, paid leave and have very limited or non-existent employment rights. according to the international labour organization, 85% of domestic workers and carers are women and this report aims to ensure that there are no more second-class, low-paid, undeclared female workers in the eu. furthermore, in ireland migrant women are particularly vulnerable to exploitation by unscrupulous employers. a report last summer by the fundamental rights agency indicated that working in domestic households was identified as the major area for severe labour exploitation in ireland. it is very disconcerting that young, migrant women working as au pairs in ireland are still vulnerable to exploitation as there is no official recognition of au pairs in ireland. this report is an important step forward in recognising and protecting the rights of domestic workers and carers and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ the draft report is rather complicated as the rapporteur proposes european legislation in the form of a directive to deal with the situation of women domestic workers and carers in the eu and this remained in the text (paragraph 2). while the ppe group is very sensitive to the issue and agrees that the situation of women domestic workers across the eu needs to be reviewed and clarified it is not of the opinion that this needs to be done via european legislation but much rather at member state level.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on women domestic workers and carers in the eu. i personally submitted 17 amendments to the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs and was pleased to see many of them were included in the final report. i was particularly pleased to see that the call for professionalisation of the sector in order to foster decent job creation and for all member states to urgently ratify ilo convention 189 on domestic workers – something i am proud to say my own country ireland has already done but 22 member states still have yet to do – was adopted. i was also pleased that my call for a carers’ leave directive was included in the final report, which is something i have advocated for a number of years. this would recognise non-professional or ‘family’ carers who take a break from employment to care for a dependant and would provide a minimum standard of social protection during the time they perform care tasks and training support, etc. given the demographic challenges facing europe and the inevitable pressure on our health and social systems it is essential to support those who save member states in excess of gbp 2.5 billion annually.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this legislation as i believe this is a member state issue rather than something that should be dealt with at supra-state level.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report that looks at the role of female domestic workers and their needs.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which calls for legislative instruments to recognise the employment and social rights of domestic workers and carers, who are very often undeclared and therefore lack job stability, paid leave and have very limited or non-existent employment rights. according to the international labour organization, 85% of domestic workers and carers are women and this report aims to ensure that there are no more second-class, low-paid, undeclared female workers in the eu. furthermore, in ireland migrant women are particularly vulnerable to exploitation by unscrupulous employers. a report last summer by the fundamental rights agency indicated that working in domestic households was identified as the major area for severe labour exploitation in ireland. it is very disconcerting that young, migrant women working as au pairs in ireland are still vulnerable to exploitation as there is no official recognition of au pairs in ireland. this report is an important step forward in recognising and protecting the rights of domestic workers and carers and i therefore voted in favour of it.
in writing. ‒ this report looked at the impact growing digitalisation is having on women as regards getting access to the ict sector, and exposure of cyber-bullying and cyber stalking. it stressed that the commission is missing out by not highlighting the enormous potential digitalisation could have for equality, participation and empowerment. the report calls on the commission and member states to address the underrepresentation of women in the ict sector, in particular those in higher positions and on boards, and to take the necessary efforts to unblock the negotiations on the directive on women on boards and to make available and improve access to funds for female entrepreneurs and digital start-ups. as i found this report to well identify some of the current challenges in the digital world, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the report calls for universal implementation of electronic voting in national elections, which is not in line with independency of national electoral systems, and proposes the setting up of a media monitoring group. however, the report on the whole is positive and covers a topic which is important for the ppe group.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on gender equality and empowering women in the digital age. digitalisation has revolutionised not just european economies but every aspect of our society, from the way we communicate with each other to how we access information, education and the world of work. there are lots of opportunities within this digital revolution but we must ensure that citizens have the right training and skills in order to seize these opportunities. this report specifically addresses the gender aspects of these challenges. there is a severe gender gap within the digital sector, where women only represent 30% of the ict workforce with the majority of this employment being lower paid and in lower skilled positions. women remain heavily underrepresented in ict degrees, where they constitute only approximately 20% of graduates in the field. education and training of women and girls in ict and other stem subjects is therefore crucial to encouraging female engagement in the sector and i welcome the call on the commission and member states to promote this. i also welcome the call for targeted investment to foster female entrepreneurship and to make funds available for female entrepreneurs to create ict-related businesses and digital start-ups.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this issue as it is a step towards greater equality.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that considers digitalisation as an opportunity for women.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the uachtaráin, is primarily responsible for the relations between the islands within the comhaontuithe comhpháirtíochta iascaigh, and is also responsible for the adoption of laws, in particular when the adoption of laws is important for the security and safety of the island. the fishing industry is also affected by the current situation. it is clear that the commission has not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the liberian and moroccan authorities are able to enter into negotiations with a view to obtaining a new licence. as was the case in ireland before its accession to the eec in 1973, it seems that there is no consensus among the irish in liberia on the laws and arrangements in this area. it is not clear that any consultation process has taken place in the uk, but it is clear that there is no agreement on the european parliament and that there is no amount of payments in accordance with the laws that have been agreed, nor is there any amount involved. the development and investment in the fishing industry is of great importance, but it is also the end of the fishing industry. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide for the possibility of a reduction in the number of staff in the member states. i'm not going to fly fishing in europe, i'm not going to go there. is léir nach bhfuil meas nó suim ag lucht na mbád mór seo in inbhuanaitheacht ach the coast in libéire or in the maratáine. the irish fishing industry is undergoing a period of institutional and political upheaval, as is the situation in other countries. but we should be careful not to let the world go mad with us, and to let europe and africa go mad with us.
the president holds a public hearing in parliament on public bathing. the year in which we were born, we learned about all the advantages of public bathing. there are many different ways in which such a system can be established in ireland. in ireland, it would be important to cooperate with the office of the registrar and the council of the chreidmheasa. there are many smachta ar made ag in the private bathroom ar an ngeilleagar, especially laws on the rates used are so hard. and what about going to the bathroom to support the laws that say you've already gained an advantage in your life? we are committed to the development of public transport to help small businesses develop. we are committed to doing more to support smes, to the comharchumainn and to social inclusion. it is a development of public interest that will be taken into account when the laws are enacted.
president-in-office of the council.– mr president, the good news is that, according to the spring economic forecast issued by the commission last week, economic recovery in europe continues. it is true that the picture is not always just a rosy one and we do face a difficult global environment. the growth rate remains modest at a projected 1.8% in the eu this year and there are significant differences between member states. but things are slowly getting better. the employment situation is also slowly improving but, again, with significant differences among member states. in this context, i am happy to note – and i will focus my intervention on this specific point – that unemployment of young people has dropped slightly recently. the gradual improvement in the economic situation over the past two years has translated into a somewhat better situation regarding youth unemployment. while remaining at overall high levels, it has been declining since the year 2013. in 2015 and early this year, 2016, youth unemployment continued to fall and at a faster rate than overall unemployment. let me be clear though, because we should not hide the fact that the overall level of youth unemployment still remains very worrying, and i would like to underline once more that the situation differs significantly among the member states. what did we do and what is still to be done to address this? it is not necessary to remind you that three years ago the council adopted a recommendation on establishing the youth guarantee. this recommendation has been, without any doubt, a cornerstone of european policy measures on youth employment. funds from the youth employment initiative have been front—loaded and the member states are implementing the guarantee through their youth guarantee implementation plans. obviously implementing is just one thing. taking stock of what has been done and, above all, what is still to be done is another thing. three years after the adoption of the youth guarantee, the employment committee has been tasked with monitoring the implementation of the guarantee and for that purpose a framework for indicators has been developed. earlier this year, in march, the council approved recommendations from the employment committee and i am convinced that they are of great importance for the implementation of the youth guarantee after 2016. in this respect, we look forward to the review of the commission which should be presented by the end of this year. the same goes for the announced new skills agenda which should contribute to the achievement of the eu’s targets of cutting the early school-leaving rate to below 10% and getting more young people into higher education or equivalent vocational education. let me also remind you that the new eures regulation should enter into force in the coming days and i sincerely hope that the modernised eures network can also substantially contribute to the fight against the unemployment of young people. we are fully aware of the fact that parliament expressed its concerns in the recent past about the slow implementation of the youth guarantee. funding was increased and we tried to speed things up, although it should be clear to all of us that, first of all, member states are the ones that have to implement structural reforms. as you all know, youth employment has always been a central subject in the country—specific recommendations, and will continue to be so. we need more job creation and we also need to exploit the full potential of the exchange of best practices among the eu member states, and also beyond the union. let me also underscore that the social partners have a very important role to play within this context. with specific measures like the youth guarantee and, above all, with the ongoing structural reforms in the member states, we should be able to take advantage of the improving economic situation and, thus, to make further progress in the reduction of youth unemployment.
member of the commission. – mr president, since its first day in office, a key goal of this commission has been to boost economic growth through a combination of funding tools such as the investment plan and structural funds, policy reforms in the framework of the european semester, new initiatives to unleash the potential of the internal market such as the digital single market or the energy union, and, finally, policy guidance. our objective is that this will help to tackle the high level of unemployment we are still faced with, and notably youth unemployment. there are now encouraging signs which i should first mention, as was also just mentioned. approximately 4.3 million young people in the european union were unemployed in march 2016. this is down from a peak of 5.7 million in december 2012, or, simply put, a drop of nearly 25%. these are positive developments, reflecting a return to growth, decisive action from the member states and the support given by the eu. however, while the youth unemployment rate has decreased from a peak of 23.9% in february 2013 to 19.1% in march 2016, it is still too high in various member states. there are peaks of more than 35% in several countries. moreover – and more alarmingly – in 2015, 12% of young people aged between 15 and 24 were not in employment, education or training, with peaks of around 20% in bulgaria and italy. wasting the potential of young people, who are usually better trained, is something we cannot afford. against this background, president juncker made it clear that we need to channel funding towards projects that can help get the younger generation back to work in decent jobs, further complementing the efforts already undertaken with the youth guarantee scheme, the implementation of which must be accelerated and progressively broadened. as you may know, the youth guarantee is a political commitment that all young people under 25 get an offer – within four months of leaving education or becoming unemployed – for employment, a traineeship, an apprenticeship or continued education. delivery on the objectives of a youth guarantee require strategic reforms to achieve more successful transitions from school to the labour market. progress has been carefully monitored within the european semester and has resulted in country-specific recommendations where appropriate. notably, in 2015, country—specific recommendations for bulgaria, spain, italy, portugal and romania specifically pointed to the need for action on youth employment. the commission has mobilised a range of instruments to support implementation. policy support and mutual learning help member states put in place the right infrastructure and measures. the youth guarantee’s implementation is still in an early stage, and additional efforts are needed to accelerate and broaden its implementation. while progress has been facilitated so far by an unprecedented political backing and support from eu financial instruments, a key challenge is to ensure sustainable implementation. this requires fundamental structural reforms in most member states in order to create the necessary conditions to help young generations enter the labour market. the commission will continue to monitor the youth guarantee. in order to take stock of the success achieved and lessons learned from the youth guarantee, let me inform you that the report on its implementation and the operation of the youth employment initiative is due by the end of 2016. this will also address the quality and framework of traineeship implementation. it will include a qualitative assessment of the actions and the use of the funding devoted to supporting young people. the forthcoming skills agenda is complementary to the youth guarantee. indeed, we need to make sure that everybody – not only the young – has the skills needed to keep pace with a fast-changing labour market. europe’s economic success is, to a very large extent, based on the skills of our people. our future competitiveness and growth depend on skills, and the pace of change in the labour market makes this especially challenging. the digital revolution continues to reshape jobs. the new skills agenda will focus on skills as an elevator to the employability of all people. it will also focus on creating the right environment for all skills to drive competitiveness and fair and balanced growth. moreover, it will set out actions for a reinforced engagement with businesses for a shared commitment to deliver skills to europe. however, we should not forget that the main responsibility for defining their employment and social policies and for pursuing structural reforms lies, of course, with the member states. the commission is working closely with them to support and complement their actions.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i want to concentrate on the youth guarantee, which is our flagship project, and i want to ask the commissioner – or, even more importantly, i want to ask the council – what progress has been made by member states on the youth guarantee? we voted in this parliament for increased pre-financing for the youth employment initiative (yei). how much has been spent? the deadline is this year. is it likely that some – even a significant amount – of that money may come back unspent? what are we doing to ensure that this does not happen and the youth guarantee delivers? one of the issues i have come across is that it can be challenging to incentivise young people to access the youth guarantee. there are different reasons for this and often it is because they know – and the authorities know – that it is only for a few months. it is not sustainable. many of these young people are already very disillusioned. so what are we doing to reach them? what are we doing to incentivise them? crucially, we have to understand that this includes the demand side as well as the supply side. one final, and very important, issue i want to raise is about my own country, ireland, and the fact that the vast majority of young people with disabilities cannot access the youth guarantee scheme. only those on the live register can access the youth guarantee scheme and most young people with disabilities are not on the live register. so we have a situation in which european moneys are being used to exclude young people with disabilities in the context of employment opportunities. this runs counter to our anti-discrimination legislation and our commitments under the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer.– mr kuhn, i hear what you are saying, and we have the eures programme, which is there of course to incentivise young people to move from one member state to another to access a job. but equally, we have to understand that for many young people – at least for some – they want to access employment in their own member state as well. so i think we need to find a balance. in our committee we talk about fair mobility, and that means that young people have a choice. yes, the eures programme is important, but it is just one part of what we need to do.
as you say, this is an important debate and i am happy that so many visitors – young and old – are in the chamber to listen to the debate, which is now closed. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. – as this was a technical vote, not involving any changes to the substance of the regulation, i voted in favour. the codification process is triggered when a regulation or directive has been amended by other legal acts 10 or more times. in simple terms, codification brings together all versions and amendments to the protection regulation.
in writing. ‒ this was a technical vote, taken as part of the codification process. this process is triggered when a regulation or directive has been amended by other legal acts 10 or more times. in the current case, codification brings together all versions and amendments to the regulation on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european community made since 2009. as this was a technical vote, not involving any changes to the substance of the regulation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the context of a people’s europe, we attach great importance to simplifying and clarifying the law of the european union so as to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens, thus giving them new opportunities and the chance to make use of the specific rights it gives them. this aim cannot be achieved so long as numerous provisions that have been amended several times, often quite substantially, remain scattered, so that they must be sought partly in the original instrument and partly in later amending ones. considerable research work, comparing many different instruments, is thus needed to identify the current rules.
in writing. ‒ i support the proposal for a regulation on the protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union. the proposed regulation sets out in detail the conditions determining the existence of a subsidy, the principles governing the applicability of countervailing duties that may be imposed to offset any subsidy granted directly or indirectly, for the manufacture, production, export or transport of any product whose release for free circulation in the eu causes injury, and the criteria applicable to the calculation of the amount of the countervailing subsidy. this would transpose the provisions of the subsidies and countervailing measures concluded within the world trade organization into eu law.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution on the codification of the existing legislation.
in writing. – as this was a technical vote, not involving any changes to the substance of the regulation, i voted in favour. the codification process is triggered when a regulation or directive has been amended by other legal acts 10 or more times. in simple terms, codification brings together all versions and amendments to the protection regulation.
in writing. – as this was a technical vote, not involving any changes to the substance of the regulation, i voted in favour. the codification process is triggered when a regulation or directive has been amended by other legal acts 10 or more times. in simple terms, codification brings together all versions and amendments to the protection regulation.
in writing. ‒ this was a technical vote, taken as part of the codification process. this process is triggered when a regulation or directive has been amended by other legal acts 10 or more times. in the current case, codification brings together all versions and amendments to the regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community made since 2009. as this was a technical vote, not involving any changes to the substance of the regulation, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ in the context of a people’s europe, we attach great importance to simplifying and clarifying the law of the european union so as to make it clearer and more accessible to citizens, thus giving them new opportunities and the chance to make use of the specific rights it gives them. this aim cannot be achieved so long as numerous provisions that have been amended several times, often quite substantially, remain scattered, so that they must be sought partly in the original instrument and partly in later amending ones. considerable research work, comparing many different instruments, is thus needed to identify the current rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported the proposed regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union. the proposed regulation aims to transpose into eu law the anti-dumping rules contained in the agreement on implementation of article vi of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994. this would protect the economic assets of the eu against certain international dumped imports.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution on the codification of the existing legislation.
in writing. – as this was a technical vote, not involving any changes to the substance of the regulation, i voted in favour. the codification process is triggered when a regulation or directive has been amended by other legal acts 10 or more times. in simple terms, codification brings together all versions and amendments to the protection regulation.
in writing. – this report concerned a fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and liberia. sinn féin generally does not support fisheries partnership agreements as here, when they are at the expense of developing countries and for the benefit of larger operators of the external fleets. for these reasons i abstained on the vote.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned a fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and liberia. sinn féin generally does not support fisheries partnership agreements as here, when they are at the expense of developing countries and for the benefit of larger operators of the external fleets. for these reasons i abstained on the vote.
in writing. ‒ in recent years the european union (eu) has signed a number of fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) and protocols with ‘third countries’. through the fpas, the eu provides financial and technical support in exchange for fishing rights to a wide range of fish stocks in the partner country’s exclusive economic zone (eez). since 2014, with the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) these agreements are called sustainable fisheries partnership agreements (sfpas). this sustainable fisheries partnership agreement is the first to be signed between the european union and the republic of liberia, which has a 570 km coastline along the atlantic ocean. the eez of 246 152 km² is home to demersal and pelagic fish resources including the tuna and tuna-like species
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it has positive potential for people and the environment.
in writing. ‒ given that the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement with liberia is coherent with the aims of the common fisheries policy, of a sustainable management of fisheries and aquaculture activities and that it is of great mutual benefit to both parties, i have decided to support the report written by my colleague, jarosław wałęsa. the agreement will strengthen the cooperation between the union and liberia, and more generally with west africa where important tuna fishing zones are located. it will promote a partnership framework in which to develop a sustainable fisheries policy and responsible exploitation of fishery resources in the liberian fishing zone and also help the european union in its fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the vote in favour was due to the benefit of both parties from this report. west africa is a favourable area for fishing and i believe that the union would benefit a lot from a stronger partnership due to this. the sustainable fisheries partnership agreement between the union and liberia would aid the union in its on-going battle against iuu fishing and also this would bring financial benefits to the union, in particular to french and spanish boats.
in writing. ‒ i supported this protocol that will bolster cooperation between the european union and liberia. the protocol encourages a sustainable fisheries policy and will support the local economy in the long term.
in writing. – this report concerned a fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and liberia. sinn féin generally does not support fisheries partnership agreements as here, when they are at the expense of developing countries and for the benefit of larger operators of the external fleets. for these reasons i abstained on the vote.
in writing. – this was a vote on a protocol for a fisheries partnership agreement with the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years. the money under this agreement to be allocated to the local fisheries sector is the bare minimum showing that the main aim in this agreement is to grant access to large external fisheries operators at the expense of the developing country in question. for this reason, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ this was a vote on a protocol for a fisheries partnership agreement with the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years. the money under this agreement to be allocated to the local fisheries sector is the bare minimum showing that the main aim in this agreement is to grant access to large external fisheries operators at the expense of the developing country in question. for this reason, i voted against the protocol.
in writing. ‒ the first fisheries agreement with mauritania dates from 1989, and a series of agreements have been signed since then enabling european vessels to fish in mauritanian waters. the current partnership agreement came into force in 2006 and was renewed for a period of two years in 2012, expiring at the end of 2014. after lengthy negotiations, the european union and mauritania initialled a new protocol on 10 july 2015 that will enable eu vessels to fish in mauritanian waters for a period of four years.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it provides a more realistic provision of catches.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the islamic republic of mauritania. this new agreement has remedied some of the shortcomings that undermined the usefulness of the previous protocol and represents a major step forward by comparison with the previous one. the new commitments given by mauritania in relation to transparency and priority access for the european fleet are also welcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this is a massive step forward in the fisheries partnership eu-mauritania. this protocol sees a decrease in the financial contribution from the union, the cost/benefit ratio has improved greatly with this report. what is more, the financial contribution will be used in the form of support to promote the sustainable development of the fishing sector and also environmental protection in the protected marine and coastal areas. this report offers more transparency from mauritania which will be a benefit for the european fleet.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this protocol which will give eu fishing vessels priority access to mauritanian fishing waters. the protocol also considers the sustainability of fish supplies.
in writing. – this was a vote on a protocol for a fisheries partnership agreement with the islamic republic of mauritania for a period of four years. the money under this agreement to be allocated to the local fisheries sector is the bare minimum showing that the main aim in this agreement is to grant access to large external fisheries operators at the expense of the developing country in question. for this reason, i voted against this report.
in writing. – the colossal waste of taxpayers’ money which is provided to this programme every year amounts to eur 6.3 billion – nothing more than outrageous when there are other sectors crying out for assistance. the report concerned the extension of the galileo satellite system to various new sectors and a vote to allow korea to upgrade their own differential gps station to galileo signals. moreover, there were also concerns raised about the potential for the systems to be used for non-civil purposes. for example, the european commission considers law enforcement to be a ‘civilian’ purpose, so that this and other such borderline purposes could be put to use under the project. this is completely unacceptable to my party and therefore i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report concerned the extension of the galileo satellite system to various new sectors and a vote to allow korea to upgrade their own differential gps station to galileo signals. i voted against this report for a number of reasons, first because of the massive amounts of taxpayers’ money that gets poured into the galileo programme every year (eur 6.3 billion) and second because of the potential for the systems to be used for non-civil purposes. for example, the european commission considers law enforcement to be a ‘civilian’ purpose, so that this and other such borderline purposes could be put to use under the project.
in writing. ‒ the republic of korea is a country with capabilities in the space technology and applications. it is an active user of satellite navigation services in various sectors including transport, fleet management, science and geodesy. bulgaria, croatia, and romania are to become parties to the agreement by the conclusion of a protocol.
in writing. ‒ i abstained. i do not have position on this issue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the cooperation agreement on a civil global navigation satellite system (gnss) between the european community and the republic of korea. this cooperation agreement that lays down the principles, scope and forms of cooperation on satellite navigation was negotiated in 2005 and signed in 2006. however, the agreement is only now being concluded as only recently have all member states completed their national procedure to approve it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement to promote and facilitate further cooperation between the eu and the republic of korea in the area of civil global satellite navigation, not including the galileo programme.
in writing. – the colossal waste of taxpayers’ money which is provided to this programme every year amounts to eur 6.3 billion – nothing more than outrageous when there are other sectors crying out for assistance. the report concerned the extension of the galileo satellite system to various new sectors and a vote to allow korea to upgrade their own differential gps station to galileo signals. moreover, there were also concerns raised about the potential for the systems to be used for non-civil purposes. for example, the european commission considers law enforcement to be a ‘civilian’ purpose, so that this and other such borderline purposes could be put to use under the project. this is completely unacceptable to my party and therefore i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns increasing the use of two new instruments for cohesion funding, namely integrated territorial investment (iti) and community-led local development (clld). these tools, if used more widely with a multi-fund approach, can increase flexible and more appropriate use of cohesion funds for local communities, regions and other sections of society. clld in particular is an important tool, as it rests firmly upon the idea of a ‘bottom-up’ approach, delegating competencies and resources to local actors, and is based on the experience in ireland of the leader approach to funding. itis allow for a strategic bundling of funding to meet the goals of priority programmes.
in writing. ‒ territorial cohesion was recognised as a fundamental objective of the eu and enshrined in the lisbon treaty. against this backdrop, the new generation of cohesion policy for the 2014-2020 programming period puts greater emphasis on the use of integrated and place-based oriented approaches to foster economic, social and territorial cohesion. the new erdf regulations stipulate a ring-fenced budget of 5% of expenditure for sustainable urban development. under the framework of the european structural and investment funds two new instruments have been introduced in the 2014-2020 programming period in order to achieve the territorial cohesion objective: community-led local development (clld) and integrated territorial investments (iti). in terms of resources allocated to itis and clld, around 5% of the cohesion policy budget (approximately eur 16 billion) is expected to be used for these tools. 20 member states will use itis (eur 13.6 billion), 17 member states will use itis in order to deliver sustainable urban development actions (eur 7 billion), as stated in article 7 of the erdf regulation. when it comes to clld, a total of 18 member states have expressed their intention to implement it. the take-up is based mostly on the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the existing leader programme.
in writing. ‒ i abstained as i believe it is hypocritical for the eu to preach on employment policies while its ecb arm continues to force ireland to borrow and burn billions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that highlights the importance of the new tools available within cohesion policy for the period 2014-2020 on community led local development and integrated territorial investments. i fully support and welcome the creation of the new clld instrument, which has gone beyond the leader initiative to empower local communities and provide specific local solutions, not only via eafrd, but also via the other esi funds. clld offers possibilities for urban areas and should be an integral part of wider urban development strategies, including through cross-border cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the favourable vote is because territorial cohesion is a fundamental objective of the eu, since the lisbon treaty. i agree with the bottom-up approach that is outlined in this report. enhancing territorial cohesion is an aim of the union and this report outlines an active way of doing so, hence the vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which evaluates the eu’s cohesion policy, particularly integrated territorial investments (iti) and community-led local development projects. the report offers recommendations that will help the effectiveness of these initiatives.
in writing. – i abstained on the four votes on this file including the econ committee’s amendments, the commission’s proposal and the legislative resolution. this was a technical file amending existing regulations on how statistics are collected in the european community on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, reviewing the regulation to remove references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. while i am opposed to the general attempt to regulate all aspects of the economies of member states, this file related only to statistics and may improve the quality and transparency of economic statistics, so i did not believe a vote against was justified and abstained.
in writing. ‒ this was a technical file amending existing regulations on how statistics are collected in the european community on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, reviewing the regulation to remove references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. while i am opposed to the general attempt to regulate all aspects of the economies of member states, this file related only to statistics and may improve the quality and transparency of economic statistics, so i did not believe a vote against was justified. for these reasons i abstained on the four votes which included the econ committee’s amendments, the commission’s proposal and the legislative resolution.
in writing. ‒ this is part of the overall eu framework aiming at monitoring the economic developments in each member state and in the union as a whole. the production of reliable statistics in such fields is in particular instrumental for monitoring key features such as the developments regarding current accounts and financial flows within and beyond the eu. thus, these statistics help ensure the consistency of member states’ economic policies with broad eu guidelines as well as with legal requirements derived from the eu economic governance framework. more specifically, reliable statistics are a crucial basis for the monitoring process established in the context of the macroeconomic imbalances procedures.
in writing. ‒ i abstained. not in total agreement.
in writing. ‒ reliable statistics in the field of balance of payments international trade in services (its) and foreign direct investment (fdi) are crucial for the monitoring of the economic development in the eu and in individual member states. i voted in favour of this revision that will make those statistics more transparent and efficient for eu economic policy decisions as well as enhance the cooperation between international organisations with an aim to increase the quality of the data and promote exchange of best practices. furthermore, i welcome the new inclusion of pilot projects related to fdi statistics on the ultimate beneficiary ownership concept in order to assess a concrete and efficient methodology in reporting and aggregating the data. these pilot studies will be carried out by member states 24 months after the regulation comes into force followed by a report from the commission 12 months later.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the need to align this proposal with the new institutional context and the recently revised statistical system by amending the regulation is aim of this report. moreover, i voted in favour as the need to strengthen the transparency and level of detail in statistics is something which is needed. an element which i find very favourable is that the user friendliness of the eurostat data based interface shall be improved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which highlights the importance of transparency through publications on new innovations.
in writing. – i abstained on the four votes on this file including the econ committee’s amendments, the commission’s proposal and the legislative resolution. this was a technical file amending existing regulations on how statistics are collected in the european community on balance of payments, international trade in services and foreign direct investment, reviewing the regulation to remove references to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. while i am opposed to the general attempt to regulate all aspects of the economies of member states, this file related only to statistics and may improve the quality and transparency of economic statistics, so i did not believe a vote against was justified and abstained.
madam president, of course i voted for this report because it is about looking after remote and mountainous regions. i think there is a big debate across all member states at the moment about balanced regional development, both across the european union and within our own member states and that, as monica macovei has just said, requires services to be available to those who live in these regions, including broadband, medical services, education and health. so i think this is a very timely report. on unemployment, yes we have real problems in our remote regions around youth unemployment. how do we maintain and encourage young people to live and work in these regions? if they do not have jobs, they will not stay. it is a real challenge for the european union and for the member states. as a last word on this report, linking it to the previous debate on unemployment, particularly focusing on youth, there is an issue in ireland about the fact that people with disabilities are excluded from the youth guarantee scheme. i think this has got to be addressed for the issue of equality and fairness. i hope our new minister with responsibility for disabilities will take this on.
in writing. – this report calls for a definition for mountain regions, which make up 30% of eu territory, and the creation of a single strategic approach towards these regions. this sustainable, strategic approach is much needed and is a matter which affects certain areas of rural ireland, especially along the west coast and the northern part of our country. the report calls for steps to be taken to overcome issues of accessibility and a lack of infrastructure and public services, and to create employment and combat depopulation, while also taking into consideration cross-border issues. the challenges caused by youth exodus from these regions are also referred to. the irish government has treated rural ireland shamefully– services have been stripped, our island communities have been attacked, young people have fled in their thousands and the poverty rate in rural ireland has increased. the neglect of rural ireland including mountainous regions has starved our communities of investment, funding and services and has contributed to depopulation and isolation. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this report concerns the sustainable development of mountain regions in the eu, including recognising the crucial connections between these regions and their surrounding and urban areas. the report in particular calls for a definition for mountain regions, which make up 30% of eu territory, and the creation of a single strategic approach towards these regions. it calls for steps to be taken to overcome issues of accessibility and a lack of infrastructure and public services, and to foster employment and combat depopulation, while also taking into consideration ecological impacts and cross-border issues. the challenges caused by youth exodus from these regions are also referred to. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ mountainous regions in the eu are rarely in the focus of cohesion policy. the territorial dimension is the subject of debate, yet mountains themselves are often left by the wayside and there is a reliance on member states themselves to pay attention to mountains and their associated challenges. yet the eu funds often focus on achieving specific results. the difficulty of investment in mountains, caused by a lack of infrastructure and additional costs due to remoteness, leads to the disregard of mountainous regions.
in writing. ‒ this report raises the point that the crucial connection of mountainous regions with their surroundings and urban areas needs to be taken into account. i agree and voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for both the inception of an agenda for eu mountainous regions and the consideration of the mountain dimension within future programmes and policies of the eu, especially within the esif. overall, i was pleased with the four main areas the report focused on: definition of mountainous regions within the regional policy, a concrete proposal for an eu mountainous policy agenda, coordination of existing eu policies for mountainous regions and a focus on the three types of growth: smarter, sustainable and inclusive growth. the difficulty of investment in these regions, caused by a lack of infrastructure and additional costs due to remoteness, often leads to the disregard of mountainous regions. however, we must remember that as centres of green growth, mountains themselves can be a leading force in sustainable growth within the eu. i believe it is important that we foster and cultivate our mountainous regions in order to achieve better social, economic and territorial cohesion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. the aim of the report is to outline the potential of these regions to contribute to europe 2020 strategy; therefore i believe that the vote in favour is intrinsic to achieving this. this report highlights that mountainous regions face difficulties due to the lack of infrastructure and the additional costs. however, by developing these regions there will undoubtedly be an increase in jobs and sustainable tourism. also, as outlined in the report the need to increase synergies between eu policies and to develop public-private partnerships in various sectors is crucial for this report to be successful.
in writing. – this report calls for a definition for mountain regions, which make up 30% of eu territory, and the creation of a single strategic approach towards these regions. this sustainable, strategic approach is much needed and is a matter which affects certain areas of rural ireland, especially along the west coast and the northern part of our country. the report calls for steps to be taken to overcome issues of accessibility and a lack of infrastructure and public services, and to create employment and combat depopulation, while also taking into consideration cross-border issues. the challenges caused by youth exodus from these regions are also referred to. the irish government has treated rural ireland shamefully – services have been stripped, our island communities have been attacked, young people have fled in their thousands and the poverty rate in rural ireland has increased. the neglect of rural ireland including mountainous regions has starved our communities of investment, funding and services and has contributed to depopulation and isolation. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour.
madam president, coming from ireland i have the greatest empathy with the greek people, and indeed the greek government right now, because what they are suffering, we have suffered. we heard the same arguments. we were told at the time that the debt was too big, that we would default, that we would be better off out of the eurozone, that all the money was going to the banks and that it would lead to zero growth in the economy. well, a few years down the line, thanks to good government and the sacrifices of the irish people, we are now the fastest growing economy in europe, and hopefully we can say the same about greece in a few years’ time. i think in fairness to greece, and to the prime minister, the last time i spoke here i was very critical of him. i told him it was time to show a bit of leadership and stop running around europe, giving interviews to all the media outlets and, in fairness, he has changed. it takes a big man to change tack and admit the folly of his ways, and especially the grandstanding of his then finance minister, the blustering mr varoufakis. so now i think that they are making the readjustments. we should do everything we can to be as flexible as possible with the greek government so that they can make the necessary recovery and enjoy the growth that we are enjoying in ireland today.
madam president, commissioner, you would have received letters from me on this issue, and you have heard the word ‘agriculture’ mentioned more than once. indeed you yourself raised it. so, on point 4 of the question i would like you to give more detail about how you intend to take into account the potential threat to the agricultural sector. i think what worries us is that the initial offer was to come forward with a very – we believe – generous concession to the mercosur countries on agriculture, and if that was a potential opening offer my fear is what would come afterwards. maybe you would explain the rationale in the commission that caused such outrage across the european union? you know, timing is everything, and it is so in trade agreements. the reality, as michel dantin has pointed out, is that agriculture is on its knees. across many sectors there are real problems, and you eluded very well to the realities of so many deals happening and the need for an overall view of their impact. i would rather that we waited for that impact before we sign any deals.
madam president, as a member of the committee on international trade (inta) i am normally in favour of free trade agreements and in favour of waiting for the final document before making up my mind, but i think with regard to mercosur i have a different opinion. firstly, i think the timing is all wrong, especially from the point of view of the struggling agricultural sector. at a time when prices are dropping, consumption of meat is dropping, when the russian ban is impacting hugely, when the cumulative effect of other ftas is beginning to affect us and when there is no equivalence of standards – we want to make it worse. i think that this is not good enough and we have to cry ‘stop’. as has been pointed out, there is already an imbalance of almost 20 billion between what we take in and what we export. it is very good for mercosur. no wonder they want to push the door open further without equivalence of standards. i think it is time to say we must mind our own agricultural sector first and then think about mercosur when the time is right.
madam president, in addressing the commissioner, i want to concentrate on the threat to agriculture, in particular the european beef industry, and i want to ask: what about equivalence of standards? eu farmers are surely entitled to know that they operate on a level playing field when it comes to environmental, food safety, food traceability, consumer protection and animal welfare standards. we quite rightly insist on those standards in the eu. those standards mean significant extra costs for eu farmers. it has been estimated that it could be in excess of eur 200 per head. whatever the figure is, it is hugely significant and we know from previous experience, when the ifa and the irish farmers’ journal went to brazil, that eu implementation of equivalence of standards leaves a lot to be desired. i am not saying no to trade, commissioner, but i am saying we need a level playing field, otherwise how can we expect european beef farmers to survive? finally, commissioner, can you confirm what commissioner hogan said: that beef will not be included in market access offers which will be presented to mercosur this week, and can you guarantee that there will be no ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the president of uruguay has said that the reason why we do not want a trade agreement is because we are afraid of competition. now competition would be fine if it were fair competition. the type of competition they are referring to is one where one of us runs a race with a pile of bricks on our back and the other one gets to run with a fan at their back. they are not, it is not fair. different standards, which cost us more. inevitably this is not going to work. but the problem that we have is that it is really hard to believe where the european union is going with these trade negotiations. it is really hard to believe whether we are being told the truth on what are the red lines. we have now been told by commissioner hogan that beef is off the menu. can the commissioner tell us definitively whether that is true or not, because it will cost us eur 500 million in ireland if it is not? also, where is the joined—up thinking within the european union? where does climate change fit into all of this? and can you also answer this question: who do you represent, commissioner? (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, i would like to draw vice president mogherini’s attention to goal 16 on promoting just, peaceful and inclusive societies. i have just returned from egypt, where the situation is anything but. over 40 000 political prisoners, 544 forced disappearances since august 2015, human rights organisations and their families living in fear of arbitrary arrest and detention, a free press that is virtually non-existent, and political opposition crushed. i have repeatedly asked the vice-president to meet to discuss the case of ibrahim helawa, who will spend his 1000th day in prison on friday, arrested as a juvenile for attending a pro-democracy rally in 2013. a european parliament resolution, a letter from 50 meps and a meeting request from almost every irish mep has not persuaded you to meet, so could i please reassert the urgency to meet with the vice-president to discuss ibrahim helawa, but also the wider situation in egypt.
mr president, i think this is an excellent proposal. the european union rightly prides itself on being the biggest donor in humanitarian development aid in the world and we bring in migrants who are fleeing persecution, etc. but, on the other side of the coin, we actually deny ourselves the opportunity of helping the most talented people who, by coming here, can add value to what is happening in europe and when – or if – they go back to their own country, they will add huge value back there in due course. so this is a very sensible proposal. if you want to be the best, you must attract the best, and this is the best way of doing it: helping researchers, students, volunteers, etc. these are people with talent who can make a difference, and having them all together and creating an opportunity that creates jobs in itself and makes progress and innovation is a great idea.
in writing. ‒ this proposed regulation aimed to extend an exemption for commodity dealers from large exposures requirements and own funds requirements contained within the current capital requirements regulation from the end of 2017 to the end of 2020. while i support strong regulation of investment firms, i believe a review into regulation of these firms should be completed before meps decide whether commodity dealers should be exempt from any requirements, which is why i abstained on the report. sinn féin is opposed to several aspects of the capital requirements regulation and we would likely oppose the exemption from these requirements for commodity dealers on the basis that they are often large investment firms that engage in high-risk investment practices. however, i did not vote against the proposal because the commission is carrying out a review that will include both general investment firms and commodity dealers to determine what regulation is most appropriate to deal with the risk profile of both. the review will not be completed before the current sunset clause in the crr will expire at the end of 2017, so i prefer not to vote on whether or not to continue the exemption until the review is completed.
in writing. ‒ the term ‘commodity dealer’ covers a wide spectrum of actors in energy and commodity markets: some trade exclusively in commodity derivative contracts and resemble investment firms in terms of functions and risks, whereas others trade commodity derivatives purely as an ancillary activity to commodities production. the requirements laid down in regulation (eu) no 575/2013 (the ‘capital requirements regulation’ or ‘crr’) and in directive 2013/36/eu (the ‘capital requirements directive’ or ‘crd’) apply to both credit institutions and investment firms. the prudential regime applicable to investment firms is derived from that imposed on credit institutions, adapted as a function of the investment services that they provide.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this proposal to extend the sunset clauses to allow for a fully analysed prudential framework to be put in place for commodity dealers. if the sunset clauses elapsed without setting in place a proper prudential framework for commodity dealers they would become subject to the full requirements of crr/crd starting from 1 january 2018. this could force them to significantly increase the amount of own funds that they need to have in order to continue their activities and could therefore increase the related costs of performing those activities. this proposal extends the existing exemptions in crr to allow for the completion of the report followed by the creation of a tailored framework for these firms.
in writing. ‒ i support this extension of current legislation that will allow for adequate time to prepare and adopt comprehensive and effective legislation on the risk profile of commodity dealers.
the president, like most of the other members of the commission, voted against the motion for a resolution by the group of the european people's party. when the vote was taken a few weeks ago under the pnr, it was decided to make the troid against the sceimhlitheoireachta. august is right is sin. citizens can be citizens now, but europe should be healthier and safer for them in the future. we are giving europol a budget of over eur 2 million and it is still not ready. we can be happy, at least, that we're on the right path.
in writing. – there was no final vote on this report as it was at second reading phase. however, i voted in favour of a rejection amendment. the council proposal enhanced and expanded the remit and operational capacity of europol, which included giving the enforcement agency the power to determine what online content is illegal or not and substantially increased data collection power. in addition to this enhancing power, the council proposal sought to remove oversight and monitoring of europol activity. whilst the report does subject europol to tighter data protection restrictions, the removal of the joint supervisory body removes all on-site regulation and the monitoring of national databases. my party has been to the forefront in raising concerns about the current deterioration of much earned civil liberties across europe at present. this report reflected many of those concerns and i was very concerned with the infringement of basic civil liberties. my party will continue to monitor the infringement of human rights and civil liberties both in ireland and in europe.
in writing. ‒ i had several serious concerns with aspects of this report, which in my view amount to an infringement of basic civil liberties. there was no final vote on this report as it was at second reading phase. however, i voted in favour of a rejection amendment. the council proposal enhances and expands the remit and operational capacity of europol, including giving the enforcement agency the power to determine what online content is illegal or not and substantially increased data collection power. on top of enhancing power, the council proposal seeks to remove oversight and monitoring of europol activity. while the report subjects europol to tighter data protection restrictions, the removal of the joint supervisory body removes all on-site regulation and the monitoring of member state databases. i also voted in favour of a greens amendment calling for the controversial internet referral unit to be legislated on separately.
in writing. ‒ creating a harmonised, high level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union is crucial as a means of respecting and safeguarding the fundamental rights of union citizens. given the shared responsibilities of the union and member states in the area of freedom, security and justice, it is essential that there be close and effective cooperation among supervisory authorities at national and union level.
in writing. ‒ i support the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for law enforcement cooperation (europol) and replacing and repealing council decisions 2009/371/jha, 2009/934/jha, 2009/935/jha, 2009/936/jha and 2009/968/jha. i believe that it is essential to create a harmonised, high level of data protection covering police and judicial activities in the union as a means of respecting and safeguarding the fundamental rights of union citizens. such a regulation would ensure effectiveness and consistency in relation to the privacy rights of citizens, while simultaneously providing a high standard in judicial and policing affairs. given that ireland has an opt-out under protocol 21 on justice and home affairs, it is therefore up to the irish government to choose if they participate or not. it is my understanding that the irish government will participate.
the european union, again, is faced with many challenges and is unable to do anything good, especially in developing countries. of course, much has been done by the eu over the years to help developing countries by providing them with all kinds of advice. but i think we should now be in a position to put this into practice so that people can go to their own countries and use their own skills to go to their own countries and do research, study, train and work. if they do not join the union, they will be subject to the laws of the union in the future; if they return to their own countries, they will have to undergo all the necessary training and will be able to establish themselves abroad. it's a wonderful compliment.
in writing. – the aim of this report was to relax entry requirements for students who are travelling, training, volunteering etc. and therefore to improve the right for students to move around the eu. i voted in favour of this report, but i was disappointed that the irish government chose to opt out of this directive, which sets out common rights and procedural guarantees for job-seeking students and researchers. (which dealt with the students directive and the researchers directive from 2004 and 2005 respectively)
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which concerns the consolidation of two existing directives – the students directive and the researchers directive from 2004 and 2005 respectively. the report seeks to relax entry requirements for the above categories in doing so, and improve the right for students to move around the eu. i was disappointed that the irish government chose to opt out of this directive, which sets out common rights and procedural guarantees for job-seeking students and researchers.
in writing. ‒ the european union’s working age population has practically stopped growing and over the next couple of years it will start shrinking. the eu is also facing a situation of ‘innovation emergency’. europe is spending 0.8% of gdp less than the us and 1.5% less than japan every year on research & development (r&d). in addition, thousands of the best researchers and innovators have moved to countries where conditions are more favourable. to counterbalance this lack of manpower, immigration from outside the eu is one source of highly skilled people, and third-country national students and researchers in particular are groups which are increasingly sought after and which the eu needs to actively attract. allowing third-country nationals to acquire skills and knowledge through a period of training in europe encourages ‘brain circulation’ and supports cooperation with third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, even though ireland decided not to opt into the recast directive for a number of reasons. these reasons include that 1. the proposal conflicts with some national policies for example the internationalisation of education 2. the proposal has the potential to undermine the state immigration controls and 3. the uk is not participating in the proposal. there is a recital in the proposal that ireland is not bound by the directive. however, i was happy to support the proposal as it provides volunteers, researchers and au pairs that have previously been open to exploitation in this area with legal protection. furthermore, it allows us to foster instead of losing our most skilled, researchers and intellects who are responsible for attracting innovation and r&d investment, that can substantially contribute to the future growth of our economy.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote as ireland will not opt in to this agreement.
a uachtaráin, voted me i bhfabhar an mholta seo agus is dóigh liom gur iontach politika is, i ndáiríre, an beartas comhtháthaithe. i have to say that i think that the president of the republic of ireland, mr. gillis, has been very kind to us. the eur 30 billion under the financial framework for august 2020 is expected to be legally binding. the eu's approach is also a good example: in rich countries, it helps to make laws in rich countries and regions. my own father, when he was called into the union, was an-bhocht; but he was to love money as an gciste and would gradually become a saibhre. now we are one of the safest countries in europe with a free flow of money from the eu. i've seen a lot of people say, "i'm against the law: there's no good work being done by the citizens, and there should be a lot more publicity about the good work being done by the police inside the citizens".
in writing. – this resolution focuses on the need to accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy, particularly the need for greater simplification, the strengthening of administrative capacity and encouraging greater subdelegation to local and regional actors via new tools like integrated territorial investments and community-led local development. it also calls for greater flexibility in the use of the investment clause, which could allow some member states’ investments in development co-financed by the esif to be excluded from the calculation of national deficits. however, the resolution as a whole is still firmly couched in terms of advocating ‘structural reforms’, ‘investment-friendly policies’, and the use of a range of financial instruments as a precondition for meeting these growth and employment objectives. i therefore abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ there were several positive aspects to this report, which focused on the need to accelerate the implementation of cohesion policy, on the need for greater simplification, the strengthening of administrative capacity amongst relevant actors, and encouraging greater sub-delegation to local actors via integrated territorial investments and community-led local development. it also calls for greater flexibility in the use of the investment clause, which could allow member states to see investments co-financed by the european structural and investment fund excluded from the calculation of state deficits. however, it also strongly promotes structural reforms, policies that promote investment at the expense of workers, communities and the environment, and the use of a range of financial instruments as a precondition for meeting growth and employment objectives. on this basis i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion fund is aimed at member states whose gross national income (gni) per inhabitant is less than 90% of the eu average. it aims to reduce economic and social disparities and to promote sustainable development. for the 2014-2020 period, the cohesion fund concerns bulgaria, croatia, cyprus, the czech republic, estonia, greece, hungary, latvia, lithuania, malta, poland, portugal, romania, slovakia and slovenia.
in writing. ‒ the cohesion policy promotes balanced and sustainable development throughout the eu and i believe that its implementation should be expedited. the risk of decommitment with regard to the european structural and investment funds is of further concern. these funds should be used in line with the europe 2020 policy throughout the member states. although the global economic downturn may have stunted the implementation of such funds, there should be a continuous dialogue between the commission and the member states seeking investments in order to harmonise the general cohesion policy over the european union.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating my colleague mr rosati on his report and indeed for the work in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) where i think he received a huge majority for the work that he was doing with other rapporteurs. as others have said, the whole question of aggressive tax planning is an issue of public concern for citizens, for smes, and we have got to respond to that in a way which is appropriate, fair and balanced. the oecd agenda is the agenda to follow and i think commissioner moscovici was right earlier when he said: ‘the key question now is on implementation’. we now have under chapter 13 of the oecd beps action plan clear sets of obligations and actions on the part of eu members. we must ensure that we follow those actions up and we must ensure also that where the commission feels that member states are not living up to their obligations under the oecd agenda, that they say it clearly. secondly, on the question of automatic tax exchange of information. i come from a country, ireland, which signed with the united states of america a fatca arrangement, the second country in the world to do that, which is arguably the gold standard of tax exchange information now, where effectively the tax authorities give information on an annualised basis. it is not just important in terms of the tax paid, it is also crucially important in ensuring that we diminish loopholes and that we try to understand how companies get around the taxation system. i want to put on public record my support for commissioner moscovici’s proposal for an effective blacklisting of territories and member states that may well be regarded as tax havens. it is about time that europe did this, so that we can put to one side the allegations that are made of smaller member states from time to time by larger member states. we should get to that interpretation; it will be good for europe and good for our businesses in europe as well.
madam president, i think most citizens were greatly surprised when they became aware of the extent of tax avoidance, within europe and beyond, especially when every single worker – albeit in the public sector or the private sector – has to pay every single cent they are due in tax, no avoidance possible, and pursued to the limit if they are tried. at the same time, multinationals were able to utilise their resources to avail of every loophole to create billions and billions of extra revenue. this has to stop and i am glad that this is a first step, but not a final step. mr lamassoure said that we need to move in to the age of transparency, and this is only the start of transparency. i am at a loss to understand why we put the threshold so high at eur 750 million, and – as has been said – that only catches one out of 10 multinationals. everybody and every company and every multinational should pay all their taxes.
madam president, we certainly need action to promote social progress in today’s world of globalisation, an ageing society and – as you have said yourself, commissioner – changing work patterns. yes, of course, reviewing our tax systems: and the debate we had before this was very relevant in that area. we need a fair distribution of income, fostering of growth and, of course, a redistribution of our taxes. but we also need to promote employment, and employment with fair working conditions and a minimum wage, a living wage. that needs to be encouraged and promoted in all member states: employment that will focus on small and medium businesses and that will provide valuable jobs for women, for young people, for minorities. i say to all those who are opposed to the trade deals that have been negotiated at present: those trade deals are focused on generating employment within the european union. they are very important for small and medium enterprises, especially those that want to trade internationally. we need to enhance access and performance in education and particularly to focus on providing people with skills. in this area i would mention in particular our young people: 20% of them are unemployed. that is not equal. young people, women, minorities – they are the ones who are unskilled and trapped in low-paid jobs. so, education and focusing on retraining people to provide them with the necessary skills for today’s world: that is the key to reducing inequality.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, certainly origin labelling is nothing new to this parliament. just over a year ago we passed a resolution which urged the commission, once again, to come forward with legislative proposals to make such labelling mandatory for meat in processed foods and, perhaps unsurprisingly given that we seem to be dealing with a commission which is reluctant to legislate on anything at the moment, we have heard very little since then on potential proposals. so while not giving up on this resolution, in the interests of working with the commission we came up with a proposal where, commissioner, you could at least act on the lower hanging fruit so that you can demonstrate your willingness to stop sitting on your hands. but now, having listened to you today, i think that you have actually made the argument and the case for full origin labelling for meat in processed foods. consumer confidence in our food supply was naturally incredibly damaged by the horse meat scandal, and not just by the scale of the food fraud, but by the complexity and the length of the food chains revealed. the vast majority of consumers, as we have heard from many of the speakers, want to know where their food comes from, and it is important that we do not stall on this issue. the arguments on cost do not stack up. in ireland we have demonstrated this: we have a scheme, processed foods are labelled by country of origin, and in fact food producers are opting into the scheme and retailers are demanding it, so in fact it is good for business to have country of origin labelling.
mr president, i have to say that, if you came into this house with no fixed views on whether you are for or against country of origin labelling, you would leave confused because the arguments on both sides are very valid but very confusing. i have always been behind the concept of giving consumers the information they want, including country of origin information. we started this in beef, because of a crisis in the beef sector many, many years ago. there were concerns at the time about its impact in the marketplace but it has settled down. i have to say, though, that those who argue that labels prevent fraud really are on thin ice because what prevents fraud is an effective inspection regime in the member states, followed up by action in the courts to stop criminals in their tracks. on the particular issues of dairy and dairy products, we have to acknowledge the problems that dairy farmers are facing. the country i come from is a major exporter of dairy produce and there could be an unintended consequence for those who export into the internal market if there is a re—nationalising of the marketplace. i appreciate the comments made by colleagues who say that they want to support their own farmers. that is a very natural instinct, but i would hope that would extend to supporting farmers across europe in a way which does not discriminate. so i think there is a need for caution here, while accepting that there is an interest for us in giving consumers the information they look for.
in writing. – i welcome the move to make indications on the country of origin mandatory, recognising the value these labels have for consumers. however, i have to again call on the commission and the irish government to take into account the impact these requirements have on jurisdictions such as the island of ireland, where beef reared on one part of the island and slaughtered on the other is unfairly labelled ‘mixed-origin’ and subject to discrimination on shop shelves. flexibility for these regions and the option to have voluntary labels are vital.
mr president, i am very pleased that we are having this discussion – albeit late at night – on this very important area, renewables. in hydroelectricity, we have a sector that boasts 100 years of knowledge and experience, the highest level of efficiency of any electricity—generating technology, at between 80% and 95%, and a clean energy source that can play a massive role in helping us to meet our climate and energy targets. with 380 terawatts of hydroelectric power installed in the european union, it is one of the most significant contributors to our energy mix. this equates to around eur 24 billion per year of savings in fossil—fuel imports, and therefore 100 million tons of carbon emissions avoided. the eu is moving to deploy more renewable energy, not only in response to climate change, but also to lower our eur 400 billion yearly bill for fossil fuel imports. hydroelectricity is an ideal complement to the variability of renewables, as when the sun shines or the wind blows reservoir levels can be allowed to increase to prepare for a time when there is no wind or sunshine. let us remember also, at a time when more and more resources go into developing effective energy storage, that hydropower is the only large—scale and cost—efficient energy storage technology available today. hydroelectricity offers cost—effective flexibility and firm dispatchable storage. so what’s the outlook? it all depends on prices, and we have to use the new electricity market design to give it significant value in recognition of the flexibility that hydroelectricity offers.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, firstly i would like to thank the rapporteur, madam arena for her good cooperation on this dossier. i believe we have come forward with a good document which broadly reflects the political priorities of the committee on employment and social affairs. i sincerely hope that the commission will take full consideration of these priorities in their forthcoming proposals. now this report is against a background of a failed attempt so far at agreeing an updated modern maternity leave directive and, of course, in the expectation of a new proposal from the commission on work-life balance and hopefully some kind of carers leave directive. indeed, i was encouraged to hear the commissioner talk about a new start for parents and carers. today we are assessing the implementation of the parental leave directive. some of the political messages we put forward include: family rights, including parental leave, are equal in terms of individual rights and accessibility. secondly, we believe that these rights should be individualised, as far as possible, and that a significant part of the leave should be transferable. but we have left some flexibility for member states in conjunction with social partners. i believe this is a reasonable and a sensible approach, it allows us to strongly indicate our position in regard to gender equality and work-life balance without insisting how individuals lead their lives. we are sending a strong political message, but we are giving some choice. we call for a paternity leave directive; we say it is essential and urgent. we ask member states to extend the period of parental leave, currently at four months; that is, in particular, for parents of children with disabilities. this is very important and recognises the special circumstances which those parents face. we also call on the commission and the social partners to increase the age of the child for which parental leave can be taken; again this builds in flexibility and allows for a life cycle approach. we welcome the fact that some member states have gone beyond the minimum provisions and enabled same-sex couples, and parents of adopted children, to benefit and we recognise the need to extend that. finally, we recognise the need for fully compensated family leave.
mr president, i think it is good that we are having this discussion today and that we are trying to do something about it, but as a member of the european parliament i was massively surprised 19 months ago when my wife and i had a child and we attempted to see whether there was any possibility of parental leave, and, as it turns out, there was not. now some people might think it is acceptable that there is no parental leave for men in here, but i discovered there was none for women either. i decided to take parental leave anyway and i have to say that i was absolutely shocked at the reaction. the headlines in my national press were: ‘what is the point in electing meps if they don’t turn up to work?’ the level of abuse was completely and utterly astonishing. so what i am asking here is: whatever you are discussing today for the rest of the people of europe, could we start at home, start here, and actually apply something that makes sense? as one of the meps said, it is the most beautiful time of life. it is also one of the most difficult times, and it was made worse by the rules of this parliament, and you should be ashamed of yourselves.
a uachtaráin, will be the same story go to god, go to god! an unheard of thing in djibouti, but it's happening in other countries. tagann duine éigin i gcumhacht mar uachtarán; is maith leis an chumhacht; teastaíonn uaidh fanacht ann; aistríonn sé na dlíthe; úsáideann sé an t-arm chun a réim a chur i bhfeidhm; tagann siad anuas go dian ar lucht an fhreasúra; ní thugann siad cearta sibhialta nó cearta daonna, go háirithe do mhná agus mar sin de. tagann duine éigin i gcumhacht mar uachtarán; is maith leis an chumhacht; teastaíonn uaidh fanacht ann; aistríonn sé na dlíthe; úsáideann sé an t-arm chun a réim a chur i bhfeidhm; tagann siad anuas go dian ar lucht an fhreasúra; ní thugann siad cearta sibhialta nó cearta daonna, go háirithe do mhná agus mar sin de. tagann duine éigin i gcumhacht mar uachtarán; is maith leis an chumhacht; teastaíonn uaidh fanacht ann; aistríonn sé na dlíthe; úsáideann sé an t-arm chun a réim a chur i bhfeidhm; tagann siad anuas go dian ar lucht an fhreasúra; ní thugann siad cearta sibialta no cearta daonna, go háirithe do mhná agus mar mar sin de. this is exactly what happened in djibouti when the guelleh regime came to power in 1999. august is on the move, what have we done? the eu has committed eur 105 million to the chabahar sea. it is in our interest to review the law until at least a period of time has elapsed since the president took office.
i'd like to talk about this subject with my colleague brian hayes in ireland. but of course, welcome to the lot of you. every worker should be able to work in his private or public place and not be paid for his work. why not have a more beautiful body, especially a rudimentary one? i'm sorry, but i'm afraid that if you don't pay the money, you'll have to pay the money. therefore, there was in them a rud somebody to do about it. i would like to ask the commission and the oecd to do something about it. the people are not happy to go to the point of 750 million euros. the oecd has to do more than the commission alone.
in writing. – i abstained on this report because while it contains several important and positive aspects aimed at tackling tax evasion and avoidance, and aggressive tax planning, it also has several limitations. the report was the first legislative proposal in the anti-tax avoidance package aimed at obliging multinational enterprises (mnes) with total revenue of €750 million or more to file a country-by-country report in the member state where the ultimate parent company is resident for tax purposes and for this data to be automatically exchanged between member states. i fully support measures aimed at tackling tax avoidance but believe member states should have primary competence over tax policy, and this report proposed that the commission should be associated with the automatic exchange of information between member states. another problem with the report was that i believe the threshold for mnes’ revenue should be lower than $750m in order for them to be obliged to file country-by-country reports. the report also does not introduce a public disclosure obligation for the mnes to make their country-by-country reports public. i voted in favour of an amendment calling for such public disclosure.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report because while it contains several important and positive aspects aimed at tackling tax evasion and avoidance, and aggressive tax planning, it also has several limitations. the report was the first legislative proposal in the anti-tax avoidance package aimed at obliging multinational enterprises (mnes) with total revenue of €750 million or more to file a country-by-country report in the member state where the ultimate parent company is resident for tax purposes and for this data to be automatically exchanged between member states. i fully support measures aimed at tackling tax avoidance but believe member states should have primary competence over tax policy, and this report proposed that the commission should be associated with the automatic exchange of information between member states. another problem with the report was that i believe the threshold for mnes’ revenue should be lower than $750m in order for them to be obliged to file country-by-country reports. the report also does not introduce a public disclosure obligation for the mnes to make their country-by-country reports public. i voted in favour of an amendment calling for such public disclosure.
in writing. ‒ in recent years, the challenge posed by tax fraud and tax evasion has increased considerably and has become a major focus of concern within the union and at global level. the automatic exchange of information constitutes an important tool in this regard and the commission, in its communication of 6 december 2012, containing an action plan to strengthen the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion, highlighted the need to promote vigorously the automatic exchange of information as the future european and international standard for transparency and exchange of information in tax matters. this directive amending council directive 2011/16/eu as part of the commission’s anti- tax avoidance package, addresses the political priority of fighting tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning. it also responds to the demands of the european parliament outlined in its resolution of 21 may 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted for this report as i had no objections to its contents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that seeks to modify administrative cooperation in the area of taxation, with a requirement for an automatic exchange of information in a form of non-public country-by-country reports for mne groups with revenue of €750 million or above.
madam president, the european union is the world’s largest seafood market and this market is supported not only by eu fisheries but also by imports from third countries. in a sector so vast, it is important that the standards and rules of the european union regarding fisheries, and the labelling of fish products, are adhered to by all, including producers and importers from third countries. european consumers should be able to rely on the supply chain that provides fishery products all across europe. they should be protected from fraudulent acts such as the mis-labelling of fishery products. it is vital that we improve the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products across the european union. the fisheries industry is of great importance to my state, ireland. the industry contributes about eur 700 million annually to national income and employs 11 000 people. a european-wide traceability label, as proposed here, would be of benefit to the fisheries industry both in ireland and across the eu.
in writing. – this was a very important resolution which i voted in favour of and which aims to challenge ‘food fraud’. i have actively worked on the issue of food fraud in my capacity as an mep since 2013. the resolution concerned the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in restaurants. this is of particular importance as my country is an island and the fishing industry is a key economic industry. moreover, in recent years, there has been a proliferation of seafood which has been unlabelled or mislabelled. this threatens the livelihoods of fishermen and seafood traders and it facilitates illegal and unregulated fishing practices. furthermore, it is also not in the consumers’ interests. this resolution highlights the importance of traceability through all stages of production, processing and distribution and proper legal labelling. this will benefit both consumers and fishing communities across ireland. sinn féin will further continue to ensure that criminal activity in the food processing industry is combatted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to tackle ‘food fraud’. in recent years, there has been a proliferation of seafood which has been unlabelled or mislabelled. this threatens the livelihoods of fishermen and seafood traders and it facilitates illegal and unregulated fishing practices. it is also clearly not in consumers’ interests. this resolution highlights the importance of traceability through all stages of production, processing and distribution and proper legal labelling. this will benefit both consumers and fishing communities across ireland.
in writing. ‒ i support a strong traceability system, from landing to consumption, which would give confidence to consumers and, in turn, decrease commercial dependency on imported fishery and aquaculture products, thereby strengthening the eu market. the commission should exploit the potential of dna barcoding, which could assist in the identification of species by dna sequencing, in order to enhance traceability.
in writing. ‒ i support the resolution on the traceability of fishery and aquaculture products in catering and retail. a strong traceability system, from landing to consumption, would give confidence to consumers and, in turn, decrease commercial dependency on imported fishery and aquaculture products, thereby strengthening the eu market. a sound european label policy in the fisheries sector would be a key factor in boosting the economic development of coastal communities, in recognising the best practices of fishermen and in underlining the quality of the products they supply to consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support for this report as i had no objections with its contents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that looks at the possible mislabelling of fish and fish products sold in the eu market. i support traceability of aquaculture products.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution. the resolution deals with trade between the eu and china, and specifically with the fact that at the end of 2016 the terms which china signed up to the world trade organisation in 2001 will expire and need to be re-evaluated. i do not agree with the eu dictating to china how to run its economy – however, there are objective criteria agreed by wto members as to what qualifies as a ‘market economy’ status for a state. this resolution stresses that china does not meet these five criteria. it reiterates the importance of trade between the eu and china while also acknowledging the concerns expressed by trade unions across europe, particularly in relation to manufacturing and industries including steel, textiles, solar and chemical products. unions are concerned that price dumping by china in the eu market has a negative impact on jobs, and this would worsen if china were to be unilaterally granted market economy status without meeting the objective criteria.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with trade between the eu and china, and specifically with the fact that at the end of 2016 the terms which china signed up to the world trade organisation in 2001 will expire and need to be re-evaluated. i disagree with the eu dictating to china how to run its economy – however, there are objective criteria agreed by wto members as to what qualifies as a ‘market economy status’ for a state. this resolution stresses that china does not meet these five criteria. it reiterates the importance of trade between the eu and china while also acknowledging the concerns expressed by trade unions across europe, particularly in relation to manufacturing and industries including steel, textiles, solar and chemical products. unions are concerned that price dumping by china in the eu market has a negative impact on jobs, and this would worsen if china were to be unilaterally granted market economy status without meeting the objective criteria. i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ it is important that we take due account of the concerns expressed by eu industry, trade unions and other stakeholders as to the consequences for eu jobs, the environment, standards and sustainable economic growth in all the manufacturing sectors affected and for eu industry as a whole, and ensure, in this context, that eu jobs are defended.
in writing. ‒ while china is a valued and extremely important trading partner for the european union, it is not yet a market economy. the five criteria established by the eu to determine whether a state has market economy status have not been fulfilled. as china does not meet the eu’s five criteria required to qualify as a market economy, the eu should be able to use a non-standard methodology in anti-dumping investigations into chinese imports for the purpose of determining price comparability. furthermore there should be effective trade defence instruments that guarantee a level playing field with china for eu industry in compliance with wto rules. for these reasons i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no objection to its contents.
in writing. ‒ i support this resolution. china’s exports will be treated in a non-standard way until it meets the five criteria for market economy status; we need a level playing field for eu industry and jobs.
madam president, the 2030 agenda is a global framework which was introduced in 2015 to help eradicate poverty and achieve sustainable development by 2030. the goals set out in this agenda are ones that this parliament has long been committed to achieving. it is of great importance that this union sets out a sustainable development strategy that encompasses all the goals, targets and global indicators set out in the 2030 agenda, which all member states have committed to implementing. i am pleased and proud to say that the negotiations for the 2030 agenda were co-facilitated by the irish permanent representative to the united nations. so ireland has long since committed to these sustainable development goals and the 2030 agenda, and fully supports further implementation of these goals within the union.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. in particular, i voted in favour of an amendment which highlighted the destructive impact which trade agreements such as ttip, tisa and ceta could have on achieving the 17 sustainable development goals. these goals were laid down by the united nations on 25 september 2015 and the aim is to work towards these goals by 2030 and the eu has agreed to fully implement the agenda these goals include aims to eradicate poverty, hunger, illiteracy and disease, provide clean water, take action on climate change and achieve gender equality. the resolution also calls for the commission to come forward with proposals for an overarching strategy on how these goals can be incorporated at all policy levels and for a detailed timeline for review, which i and my sinn féin colleagues will be monitoring closely.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which refers to the 17 sustainable development goals set by the united nations on 25 september 2015. these goals include aims to eradicate poverty, hunger, illiteracy and disease, provide clean water, take action on climate change and achieve gender equality. the aim is to work towards these goals by 2030 and the eu has agreed to fully implement the agenda. every year, a progress report will be presented on these goals at un level at the high-level political forum (hlpf). reports are made based on data produced by national statistical systems. this resolution calls for ministers in the foreign affairs council to adopt a coherent and common position ahead of the july hlpf on how the eu will work towards these goals through its work. the resolution also calls for the commission to come forward with proposals for an overarching strategy on how these goals can be incorporated at all policy levels and for a detailed timeline for review. in particular, i voted in favour of an amendment that drew concern for the negative impact ttip, ceta and tisa could have on achieving the sdgs.
in writing. ‒ we need a proposal for an overarching sustainable development strategy encompassing all relevant internal and external policy areas, with a detailed timeline up to 2030, a mid-term review and a specific procedure ensuring parliament’s full involvement, including a concrete implementation plan coordinating the achievement of the 17 goals, 169 targets and 230 global indicators.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution. the sustainable development goals are important tools in the global development strategy. the eu should produce a coherent and common position in relation to the implementation of the sdgs. we are committed to the eradication of poverty and therefore we should redefine and modernise our development strategies to ensure that these goals are achieved. the universality of these goals should be stressed and the eu along with its member states should commit fully to their implementation, both in practice and in spirit.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i had no objections to its contents.
madam president, first of all let me say that for many years i pushed hard to ensure country of origin labelling for poultry meat, and last april i was very pleased to see that poultry meat, pig meat, sheep meat etcetera had mandatory country of origin labelling. however, we still have some loopholes in relation to processed meat, and this resolution today is an attempt to start, or continue, the conversation around how to ensure that consumers have sufficient information to make informed judgments, without ensuring we have disproportionate costs. with regard to milk and dairy produce there are some difficulties, and i was disappointed that we did not recognise this by supporting amendment 5 which highlighted the negative effect mandatory labelling could have on dairies in border regions. we need to look at this issue, but it is very important to remember that country of origin labelling often supports locally produced milk rather than the cheapest milk sourced from anywhere in the world. finally, i was happy to see that parliament agreed that any country of origin labelling would not be weakened by any trade agreements, including ttip.
a uachtaráin, staon mé ón vóta deiridh sa tuarascáil seo. because i think it is important that the commission discusses the findings of the feasibility reports. a mandatory indication of the country of origin or place of provenance for milk – milk used as an ingredient in dairy products – and types of meat other than beef, swine, sheep, goat and poultry meat. if mandatory labelling is to be introduced in these instances, the extra cost that would be put on producers must be taken into account by this parliament. if mandatory labelling is going to raise the cost of production beyond a feasible level, it may not be the best course of action. agriculture and food production are both hugely important sectors in ireland and so i am very concerned about the assessments made on mandatory feasibility. i would like to hear from the commission before any further action is taken. agus sin an fáth gur staon mise agus mo comhghleacaithe i fine gael sa tuarascáil seo.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report on mandatory origin labelling. the report renewed the european parliament’s call on the commission to stop ignoring citizen demand and come forward with legislative proposals to extend the current origin labelling regime to more products including: milk and milk products used as an ingredient as well as meat used as an ingredient in processed foods. after a series of food fraud scandals consumer confidence has dropped. increasing transparency in the food chain by extending origin labelling to more products on the market would be a significant step in regaining some of this lost trust. moreover, surveys have shown that the vast majority of consumers want to know where the food they buy and eat comes from. the success of bord bia’s quality assurance scheme in ireland has shown that such labelling schemes can be achieved. any existing and future labelling legislation must also take account of the unique situation in ireland caused by partition and renewed efforts must be taken by all key stakeholders to avoid any further situations where produce born and reared in one part of ireland and finished in another is being labelled as ‘mixed-origin’.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution because the overwhelming majority of citizens consider having knowledge of where their food comes from to be very important to them. in ireland the border remains an obstacle to transparency when it comes to origin labelling. i also supported an amendment calling for more information on the impact of trade deals on food labelling. my sinn féin colleague lynn boylan had input into the resolution during negotiations. in the last resolution on this issue to be voted on by the european parliament, in february last year, parliament called on the commission to come forward with country of origin labelling (cool) for meat used as an ingredient in processed foods. this resolution focuses more on products such as milk, products which use milk as an ingredient and ‘lightly processed foods’, whilst still maintaining the call for cool for other products. the commission has cited ‘costs and administrative burdens’ to business operators for not bringing in cool for such products and this resolution scrutinises these excuses.
in writing. ‒ parliament has voted several resolutions on country of origin labelling. in its resolution of 11 february 2015 on meat in processed foods, parliament urged the commission to come up with legislative proposals to make labelling the origin of meat in processed foods mandatory, in order to ensure greater transparency throughout the food chain and to better inform european consumers. however, the commission has yet to make any such proposals, citing the costs of mandatory country of origin labelling to industry and predicting that consumers would not be willing to meet the additional costs.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i had no objections to its findings.
in writing. ‒ i abstained in the final vote on this motion for resolution. while supporting information for consumers and given the fact that mandatory country of origin labelling is already in place for beef and other meats, i am concerned about the potential implications for the internal market, in particular the practical implications for milk and dairy products and the possible consequences for ireland – a major exporter of agricultural products.
madam chairman, i did not support this material for one simple reason. i have nothing against parents having quality, adequate leave, and the reason i do not support this is that i believe that this area does not fall within the scope of the european union. i am convinced that if we want to apply the principle of subsidiarity in the adoption of european legislation, then we should not simply regulate such matters at the european level. we should leave it to the individual member states to regulate parental leave within their social systems. at the last sitting of this parliament we discussed the fact that the principle of subsidiarity should not be a mere formality but should be applied consistently. and here we are, a month later, with an example of something which, in my view, really, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, should not be regulated centrally in europe.
madam president, only 2.7% of fathers take parental leave across the eu, despite the fact that we have the option of fathers taking up to four months. one of the major issues here is that parental leave in most member states is unpaid or very poorly paid. according to the oecd, in france you can take up to 28 weeks of paid parental or paternity leave. in the uk it is two weeks, in the netherlands and greece, it is just two days. in ireland, as of yet, we have no paid parental or paternity leave. we need both. this is a crucial issue if we want parents, but in particular fathers, to use parental leave. a policy instrument called ‘daddy quotas’ where a part of the parental leave is reserved for the father has been successful in very many nordic countries. we have another possibility called ‘bonus months’ where if the parents agree to share the parental leave, they are given bonus paid weeks. finally, let me say that, once again, this morning, i called on the commission to put in place a carers leave directive and i am very anxiously awaiting the new start for parents and carers that commissioner jourová promised this morning.
madam president, the report suggests a number of legislative changes to parental leave including extending the minimum amount of parental leave to 6 months and the inclusion of a minimum of 2 weeks’ paternity leave. the aim of this report is to assess the application of legislation on parental leave by different member states and to draw the necessary political conclusions. i support the calls of this report, alongside my epp colleagues, as it recognises the importance of providing parents with adequate parental leave. ireland currently follows eu directives on parental leave. we would welcome the calls in this report, including the minimum term of 2 weeks' paternity leave, as ireland's employment laws do not as of now recognise paternity leave. however, the introduction of paternity leave in legislation would be of benefit to working parents in ireland, and i am pleased to say that, in his first interview, the new minister, leo varadkar, has said he intends legislating to make this happen. as ms stihler and ms harkin indicated, whether fathers take it up or not is a different matter.
in writing. – i strongly support this report and voted in favour of it because it recognises the need to improve parental leave rights across ireland and the eu, and aims to put gender equality at the heart of this strategy. the southern irish state is an example of worst practice in the eu. the 26 weeks of paid maternity leave is paid at a low flat rate. we’re still waiting for any paid paternity leave to be implemented and we only have unpaid parental leave. discrimination against pregnant women in the workplace, low pay and precarious work, the punishment of lone parents who want to work, and skyrocketing childcare costs, all worsen the situation. sinn féin wants to cap and then reduce childcare fees; to restore the rights and payments to lone parents; and ensure paid maternity, paternity, parental and carer’s leave. this report stresses the importance of these four types of leave. it also calls for non-transferability of parental leave – a proposal that supports gender equality in caring responsibilities, based on evidence that in states where leave can be transferred it is often transferred to the mother and there is a low take-up of paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i strongly support this report and voted in favour of it because it recognises the need to improve parental leave rights across ireland and the eu, and aims to put gender equality at the heart of this strategy. the southern irish state is an example of worst practice in the eu. the 26 weeks of paid maternity leave is paid at a low flat rate. we’re still waiting for any paid paternity leave to be implemented and we only have unpaid parental leave. discrimination against pregnant women in the workplace, low pay and precarious work, the punishment of lone parents who want to work, and skyrocketing childcare costs, all worsen the situation. sinn féin wants to cap and then reduce childcare fees; to restore the rights and payments to lone parents; and ensure paid maternity, paternity, parental and carer’s leave. this report stresses the importance of these four types of leave. it also calls for non-transferability of parental leave – a proposal that supports gender equality in caring responsibilities, based on evidence that in states where leave can be transferred it is often transferred to the mother and there is a low take-up of paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ the aim of this report is to assess the implementation of the legislation on parental leave by the different member states and to draw the necessary political conclusions. however, owing to the fact that in the member states this type of leave overlaps with others, the latter must also be studied; the political conclusions relating to parental leave are inextricably linked to those that must be drawn on maternity and paternity leave.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report due to having no objections with its contents.
in writing. ‒ i support this report that looks at parental leave in the eu. parental leave must be granted equally to all workers regardless of their employment type.
madam president, human trafficking is the most despicable modern day act of criminality and we must do everything we can to try to prevent it. so this report is an opportunity to assess the measures taken, the implementation of the directive, focusing on the gender dimensions of victims of human trafficking and trying to identify further steps that may be taken to enhance the effectiveness of the directive. focusing on protection of human rights, trafficking from a gender perspective is a priority for the epp and it is important that we not only work to prevent human trafficking, but protect victims of trafficking and work towards having better cooperation between member states when tackling these human rights issues. ireland is committed to tackling and preventing human trafficking and this report tackles that issue in a largely positive way which we are happy to support and hopefully we can help to move towards reducing and eventually eliminating this despicable practice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this important report, which is focused on the implementation of directive 2011/36 on human trafficking. the directive included reporting obligations on assessing the measures taken to comply with the directive by member states, which the commission has failed to do. the report takes on the gendered dimension of trafficking as well as highlighting the heightened risk refugees and asylum seekers face of being trafficked. the report includes calls for the right to abortion services for women who are victims of sexual exploitation when the pregnancy has been caused by this exploitation, which i voted in favour of as sinn féin supports access to abortion in cases of sexual crime.
in writing. ‒ the current refugee crisis has shown up the lack of proper tools at a european level for jointly combating trafficking of human beings, especially when its aim is the sexual exploitation of women and children. a ‘one size fits all’ strategy is not efficient and the different forms of trafficking, such as trafficking for sexual exploitation, trafficking for labour exploitation and child trafficking, need to be addressed with specific and tailored policy measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report as i had no objections to its findings.
mr president, from an irish perspective, i think that today’s discussion on foreign currency loans is an important one. at a time when ecb rates are at historic lows since the time of the financial crisis, irish people find themselves in the situation where irish variable mortgage rates are significantly higher than the eu average. some banks are charging up to 4% in ireland, while the eu average is around 2%. it is a situation about which my irish colleagues and i have written a cross—party letter to ecb president mario draghi, and we hope which will get a positive response. but it is a discussion today that reminds me of an additional reason for concern, as an irish public representative, related to our high interest rates. to a lot of irish people, a foreign currency mortgage may look like a great deal. lower interest rates, longer maturities; it seems like a great idea. an irish person on a foreign currency mortgage could save an awful lot of money in the short term. however, this is a gamble that must be looked at from a long-term perspective. despite early savings, there is a huge risk that one will have to pay more in the long run – potentially a lot more. for this reason, i feel there is a need to maximise the amount of information that a bank is required to provide to consumers interested in such a loan, and i call on all member states to ensure this happens. i think most of us here would agree that if loans are taken out in a foreign currency, the economy becomes less stable. when there is a high share of foreign currency loans in the economy, households become very sensitive to fluctuations in the exchange rate, and this significantly affects consumption and housing demand. the central bank responds to fluctuations in such output, and therefore more foreign currency loans will lead to stronger adjustments in short—term interest rates. this in turn makes the exchange rate, and therefore borrowers’ expenditure, even more volatile. additionally, with deep exchange rate depreciations, we have a surge in servicing costs expressed in domestic currency, and this could bring mass defaults and lead to a systemic banking crisis. i feel this should even be a warning sign to the united kingdom voters ahead of the brexit referendum. if there is to be a sharp depreciation of sterling, as is predicted, should brexit occur, united kingdom banks would be forced to offer foreign currency loans and possibly bring increased instability to their economy at a time when they would need not need any more. in this regard, i welcome the commission’s recognition of the problem of irresponsible lending and borrowing, including the irresponsible behaviour by market participants that blighted europe, and my own country in particular, before the financial crisis. i commend them on the work they are doing to correct these problems. finally, i want to say to the commissioner that you are doing good work and we appreciate it, and to keep it going. i call on member states to implement fully the provisions laid out in the mortgage credit directive. to european consumers i say, when it comes to currency loans, beware of the wolf in sheep’s clothing
the president, thank you for the opportunity to speak on a subject which has been in the works for some years and which has been discussed by the commission in many of the meetings held here today. without a doubt the single market was probably the most important aspect in the development of prosperity in europe. my own country probably benefited more than most. and now of course, as we move into the digital age, we must complete not just the single market, but the digital single market, and remove barriers to it. people have talked all day about geo-blocking, which is true, but other aspects are very important, such as high-speed broadband being available consistently and reliably across europe, especially in rural areas. vat rules have to be looked at. also delivery and proper postal addresses an awful lot of goods are returned because the postal addresses are not properly described and the places cannot be found. so all these things will help us to complete the digital single market.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, firstly let me thank the commissioner for his good words and also theresa griffin for her work on this file and her willingness to cooperate and seek to find good compromises. i must say that it was a privilege to work with her. i think the report we will vote on tomorrow will send the right message. it puts forward some good ideas about how we can lower energy prices for all. we should not underestimate the importance of this issue in a wider economic context. reducing energy costs, and therefore household costs, is a massive opportunity to ease the burden on already stretched household budgets across europe. this can in turn boost consumer spending power, give a boost to businesses and help to bring economic growth across the eu. for me, the best way to deliver this new deal for energy consumers is by putting in place a well—functioning market and a well—functioning energy system. competitive markets increase transparency and comparability of prices, and better-informed and empowered consumers will help energy become far more affordable for all. i think one important aspect of this is increasing the share of the retail price on which retailers can compete. in europe retailers can only compete with each other on about a third of the price. the rest is made up of taxes and add-ons. increasing this share by reducing the amount of government add—ons would increase competition, drive down prices for consumers and, at the same time, allow retail prices to better reflect wholesale prices, enabling proper market signals to occur. the other part of this debate we are here to address is energy poverty. i think the differing definitions of energy poverty in different member states, based on different climatic conditions, is something we need to strongly consider before thinking about an eu-level action, but that should not distract from the importance of this issue. in ireland, we define energy poverty as an inability to heat or power a home to an adequate degree. a household in ireland that spends more than 10% of its income on energy is considered to be in energy poverty. as a country that has the third highest energy prices in europe, this is of course a big issue for us, and i am pleased to say that we put in place a strategy to combat the problem early this year. i look forward to further debate and progress on this very important issue. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, that is a problem, and that is why i identified that each member state will have different definitions, different ways of dealing with it. but obviously, if we have an eu-wide regulation or directive, then the individual states have an obligation to deal with that and especially in relation to energy poverty. it absolutely make sense that all member states should do everything they could to try and reduce or eliminate energy poverty, whether these companies are state-owned, private or whatever. that has to be a very important social issue that has to be dealt with.
madam president, how many lobbyists does it take to persuade an mep? forty, apparently, because with 30 000 lobbyists in this city, there are 40 for every single member of this parliament. the european commission is currently carrying out a consultation on whether a transparency register should be mandatory. only in the european institutions would a non-mandatory transparency register be considered anything other than an oxymoron. seventy per cent of the 30 000 lobbyists represent corporate interests. nine members of the last commission are now corporate lobbyists, making sure that the revolving door remains well oiled. industry representatives outnumber academics, consumer groups, and trade unions by four to one on commission expert groups, and 75% of all eu legislation shows visible progressions owing to corporate pressure. with these facts in mind, can we really be expected to believe that agreements such as ttip, ceta and tisa are being negotiated in the interests of eu citizens?
madam president, i want to start by referencing remarks about suicide, because it came up in our committee last night and it has been said today and i just want us to be very sensitive to the mental health issues that cause suicide and to ask members to be very careful of the language and the signals we give out, and indeed to ask member states, including my own, to put in place measures to help people who are in a very bad place at the moment, and i include in that plea the banks who may be putting undue pressure on farmers. dairy farmers are not fools. they are watching this debate even though they are milking their cows this morning. they now have heard a very stark message from the commissioner and from this debate. the situation on the milk market is acute. the tragedy is that when they decide to cut back production it is almost after the event. so we really do need to make sure that these measures work, commissioner, and to be ready to do more if they do not.
madam president, it is beyond comprehension how the commissioner can blame the farmers – the farmers who have had a half day’s work done before he turned up late for this meeting. if he wants to blame someone, then go after the supermarkets who are making an absolute killing out of this. go after the processors. the financial markets are making money out of this. the banks are making money out of it. as he knows, although he did say he does not read the irish newspapers, the cooperative directors are making money out of this – nine million between nine of them over the last two years. he is making money out of this – eur 300 000 – yet he cannot turn up on time. at the meeting the other day he claimed that there was something being done about the russian embargo, how they are talking but they are not really listening. was he listening or did he hear what donald tusk said when he could not sleep last night, and he put out on twitter: ‘eu stays the course on russia, including economic sanctions’. it is time to get up a bit earlier, commissioner. it is time to talk to people like donald tusk. it is time for a bit of joined—up thinking and it is time that the people who get up early and do the work get the money – and not people like you.
in writing. – the commissioner claims that he is doing everything within his power to help dairy farmers in distress. he has placed a great deal of reliance on the use of article 222 from the common market organisation (cmo) regulation as a stress-relieving measure, so that member states have the option of funding milk suppliers that cut their production. however the success of this measure is dependent on the irish government actually activating the scheme, something it has already said it does not plan on doing. in this situation, what real measures can the commission claim to have provided directly to the farmers? its refusal to find a way to suspend super-levy fines shows neglect towards the cash-flow problems being experienced by european farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls for an analysis of the rising use of virtual currencies (vcs) such as the bitcoin, which are stored and traded online through distributed ledger technology (dlt). the report outlines the risks associated with the use of a totally unregulated currency which has been issued privately instead of through a central bank or public authority – for example, legal uncertainty for consumers, anonymous use which contributes to tax fraud and money laundering, potential for speculative bubbles, etc. it also notes that the worldwide web and dlt are internet-based and that despite efforts to create an international governance system the internet is still governed by an agency in the us department of commerce. while the report does not propose pre-emptive legislation to regulate virtual currencies at this stage, it does call for the commission to carry out an analysis of vcs and consider revising existing relevant eu legislation on payments to include regulation of vcs if appropriate.
in writing. ‒ seven years after the launch of the bitcoin, the first and most prominent virtual currency (vc), it has become clear that the underlying innovation, distributed ledger technology (dlt), is set to have a significant impact on the financial sector and beyond. this technology, in principle, enables a decentralised, rapid, resilient and rather secure means of recording any sort of transaction together with the history of previous transactions in a ‘distributed ledger’. investment in dlt is soaring and certain applications could rapidly become systemic. while there are still some questions regarding the scope of this ongoing technological transformation, the considerable opportunities and non-negligible risks involved make this first report by parliament on vc and dlt a timely undertaking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as overall it makes sense. virtual currencies are the future.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this well balanced own-initiative report that responsibly addresses the emergence and growth of virtual currencies (vc) and their underlying technologies, specifically distributed ledger technology (dlt) and its new and fast developing technology. in principle, this new technology brings a lot of opportunities such as low transaction and operational costs, reducing costs of access to finance, enhancing resilience and speed of payment systems, thereby facilitating the trade in goods and services, etc. however, this report equally highlights the risks of such decentralised technology, such as its use for criminal purposes, money laundering, tax evasion and terrorist financing. there are also risks linked to the fact that there is no clear governance structure which, together with the high volatility of vcs, creates a high degree of uncertainty.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it takes a measure approach to virtual currencies, which are becoming more and more popular. the report addresses issues that could arise from their use and helps to plan for a future where the phenomenon of non-central bank governed crypto currencies and transactions via block chain technologies become part of the norm.
in writing. ‒ i support this report that examines the potential challenges of a non-bank regulated currency and the impact that this could have on consumers and exchange rates.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. the report notes the rise of the use of virtual currencies such as the bitcoin which are stored and traded online through distributed ledger technology (dlt). in principle, virtual currencies could provide a much more democratically regulated currency, regulated by the community. moreover, the tech – blockchain – could also provide a more transparent transaction system which could counter illicit capital flows and money laundering if it is paired with the right form of regulation such as anti-money laundering regulations. however, the report further outlines the risks associated with the use of a totally unregulated currency which has been issued privately instead of through a central bank or public authority – i.e., legal uncertainty for consumers, anonymous use which contributes to tax fraud and money laundering, potential for speculative bubbles, etc. however, as stated above this can be countered by the right form of regulation such as anti-money laundering regulations. the most significant aspect of the report is the call for the commission to carry out an analysis of virtual currencies and consider (if appropriate) revising existing relevant eu legislation on payments to include regulation of virtual currencies.
in writing. ‒ this report was an approval of an application by the french government for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) of €5.1 million to support 2,132 former drivers from road haulage firm moryglobalsas. the egf funds are used to provide re-training and personalised job search supports to workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and major changes in global trade patterns. in recent years changes to the rules of the egf has meant that workers made redundant as a result of the financial crisis can also be covered by the egf programmes. this application was based on the crisis-related criteria, relating to the decline in freight transport in europe by 13% (and by 21% in france) since the crisis began. while there were some criticisms raised by french workers of the company’s behaviour in previously seeking and receiving public aid, and then shutting down anyway, i vote in favour of the report to approve the mobilisation of the fund. the aid directly benefits only the workers and not the company.
in writing. ‒ the application relates to 2 132 workers made redundant in moryglobal sas. this enterprise operated primarily in the economic sector classified under the nace revision 2 division 49 (land transport and transport via pipelines) and also in the nace revision 2 division 52 (warehousing and support activities for transportation). the redundancies made by moryglobal sas are located throughout mainland france.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this support to the dismissed workers, especially considering it concerns an sme close down, following the deep greek crisis since 2008.
in writing. ‒ i supported this application to mobilise eur 5 146 800 of the egf for 2 132 workers in france made redundant following the closure due to bankruptcy of moryglobal sas across 54 different sites throughout mainland france. moryglobal was active in the fields of courier services, freight transport and delivery, warehousing and rental of related materials, providing these services in france and abroad. as a result of the global financial and economic crisis, road haulage in vehicles weighing more than 3.5 tones declined by 13.7% in the eu and by 21% in france between 2007 and 2012. in 2014 the activity of the road freight transport remained more than 10% lower than the pre-crisis activity and due to the reduction in volumes to be transported a price war broke within the sector, leading to a steady deterioration of operating margins followed by a wave of bankruptcies in the road haulage sector. i was very pleased to see that the application will support co-funded personalised services to be provided to the redundant workers consisting of advice and guidance provided by a team of expert consultants, which comes on top of the social plan and the contrat de sécurisation profesionelle funded by france in order to support the workers on the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this motion as it supports the reintegration in the labour market of workers who have been made redundant and works to decrease unemployment within the affected area and social grouping.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of releasing funds to help workers adjust to changes in their work situation.
in writing. – this application relates to 2 132 workers who were made redundant in the transport sector – moryglobal sas – in france. it is also a crisis-based application based on the decline in freight transport in europe by 13% (and by 21% in france) since the crisis. there were some issues with this application as the company had sought state funds in recent years and then relocated anyway. however, the french trade unions, while critical of the company’s action, still supported the use of the fund for the workers. therefore, i voted in favour of this application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was an approval of an application by greece to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). my colleague liadh ni riada was rapporteur on the report. the report approved aid of eur 6.4 million for 557 redundant workers from the larissa supermarket chain in greece, which closed last year. it also approves support for 543 young people not in employment or education (neets) in the same area. the egf funds are used to provide re-training and personalised job search supports to workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and major changes in global trade patterns. in recent years changes to the rules of the egf have meant that workers made redundant as a result of the financial crisis can also be covered by the egf programmes. in this case, the greek application relied on the ‘crisis-related’ criteria for mobilisation of the egf. the application cites a 30% drop in food/beverage consumption and purchasing power as a result of the crisis. naturally i support the proposal to provide assistance to workers made redundant as a result of the crisis to find new employment.
in writing. ‒ the application relates to 557 workers made redundant in supermarket larissa abee. this enterprise operates in the economic sector classified under the nace revision 2 division 47 (retail trade, except of motor vehicles and motorcycles). the redundancies made by supermarket larissa are located in the nuts level 2 regions of central macedonia (el12) and thessalia (el14).
in writing. ‒ i supported this application to mobilise eur 6 468 000 of the egf for 557 workers made redundant following the bankruptcy and closure of the supermarket larissa abee in greece. the greek economy was in deep recession for six consecutive years from 2008 to 2013. since 2008, greek gdp has decreased by 25.7%, public consumption by 21% while unemployment increased by about 19%. in order to deal with foreign debt repayments, the greek government has increased tax rates, streamlined public expenditure and decreased public employees’ salaries and wages in the private sector have decreased. this all resulted in an immediate effect of reduced income leading to a decrease in consumption that strongly affected the retail sector, in which supermarket larissa operates. i was very pleased to see that in addition to the 557 workers dismissed, 543 young people not in employment, education or training (neets) under the age of 30 from the same regions are expected to participate in the measures and receive personalised services co-financed by egf.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this application as it aides workers who were made redundant, due to the greek economic crisis. in particular it aids young people who are unemployed and not in education or training to up skill and find work.
in writing. ‒ i voted to release funds to help workers facing unexpected moments of difficulty.
in writing. – the first is an application from greece under the crisis criteria (as opposed to globalisation) for 557 workers and 543 neets from the same region. the redundant workers are from a cooperative of grocery stores, supermarket larissa, which closed last year. the application cites a 30% drop in food/beverage consumption and purchasing power as a result of the crisis. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this file, which concerns the waiver of immunity of an italian mep from the lega nord party. the mep in question has not committed a crime in this case, but has been the subject of threatening phone calls. under italian constitutional law, the european parliament must grant the waiver of his immunity before police can access his phone records, or acquire data concerning telephone traffic. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ it should be noted that it is not for the european parliament to interpret the domestic rules on the privileges and immunities of members of parliament; whereas it seems appropriate, however, to recall that the objective of article 9 of protocol no 7 on the privileges and immunities of the european union is primarily to safeguard the independence of members by ensuring that pressure, in the form of threats of arrest or legal proceedings, is not brought to bear on them during the sessions of the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i support the request to waive the right of immunity of gianluca buonanno mep. for the sake of legal certainty and to ensure that the deputy public prosecutor of the ordinary court of vercelli investigates any manner of wrong-doing, i believe that a waiver of parliamentary immunity in this instance is justified.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this wavier due to its effects on the investigation.
in writing. – the case concerns the waiver of the immunity of gianluca buonanno from the enf. in this case though, he has not committed a crime though but was subject of threatening phone calls. according to italian constitutional law however, the waiver of his immunity is needed before the police can access his phone records or acquire data concerning his telephone traffic. therefore, i voted in favour of this waiver.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this proposal which sought to relieve sweden of its obligations in relation to the refugee relocation programme adopted in 2015. although i recognise that sweden has already done a lot to give refuge to those feeling danger, given the worsening situation in the mediterranean, the worsening of conditions in detention/reception centres across europe and the onset of summer, now is not the time for any nation to shirk its responsibilities to address the refugee crisis. sinn féin calls on all countries, including ireland, to play their part in this crisis. for these reasons, i voted against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ sweden faces an emergency situation characterised by a sudden inflow of nationals of third countries in its territory. the considerable increase of irregular border crossing into the eu and of secondary movements across europe has led to a sharp increase in sweden of the number of applicants for international protection.
in writing. ‒ given the recent sudden inflow of nationals of third countries in its territory, sweden is faced with an unprecedented situation. sweden has received a total of 170 104 applicants, of whom 73 331 were children, including 36 181 unaccompanied minors who have special needs and who require additional resource. the swedes would have to provide access to health care, dignified accommodation and education according to union asylum rules. it has formally requested the suspension of its obligations under council decisions (eu) 2015/1523 and (eu) 2015/1601, having to face both challenges of being a country of first arrival and final destination. as a result, i acknowledge it is a difficult situation and support the request from sweden to suspend its obligations under the above decisions.
in writing. ‒ i approved this provision as it benefits both migrants and sweden in coping better with the refugee crisis. the country will be more able to support the sudden inflow of nationals from third countries, once they receive the support granted by this motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported the commission’s proposal which highlights the current migrant situation in sweden and provides for operational support.
in writing. – this proposal would see sweden negate its obligations in relation to the refugee relocation programme. in the initial report sweden was essentially requesting to be treated like italy and greece and to have refugees relocated out of sweden. this report however seeks to simply suspend sweden’s obligations to the relocation agreement. given the worsening situation in the med, the deterioration of conditions in detention/reception centres across europe and the onset of summer, now is not the time for any nation to shirk its responsibilities to address the refugee crisis. the rapporteur and gue have tabled a rejection amendment on that basis. we have consistently called for everyone to play their part in this crisis, and therefore i tabled a negative vote.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, which sought to set out the european parliament’s position in relation to a new framework for transatlantic exchanges of personal data. this new framework comes up for discussion again after the safe harbour agreement was invalidated next year. i was prepared to vote in favour of the resolution, however two vitally important amendments were lost, so i withdrew my support for the final vote. the amendments concerned had called for a sunset clause to be included, and for negotiations on an improved basis to take place on the basis of the eu’s general data protection regulation – the very regulation that the safe harbour agreement had contravened. as i did not find the joint resolution to be nearly critical enough of the mass collection of large quantities of data, and as these amendments were not included, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the privacy shield is part of a broader dialogue between the eu and third countries, including the united states, in relation to data privacy, trade, security and related rights and objectives of shared interests. we need to call on all parties therefore to work together towards the creation and sustained improvement of workable, common international frameworks and domestic legislation that achieve those objectives.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the motions for resolutions regarding transatlantic data flows. given the huge economic data trade between the eu and the us and given the fact that a huge amount of the data flow is relied on by smes, it is necessary that they are regulated in such a way as to ensure the protection of personal data and to ensure that the principles of the european union are upheld. the legal certainty for the transfer of personal data between the two parties is an essential element for consumer trust, international business development and law enforcement cooperation and therefore it is imperative that any data transfer is in harmony with eu primary and secondary law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as the transfer of data is essential for business development and law enforcement on both sides of the atlantic ocean, while ensuring high levels of data protection.
in writing. – i voted against the motion for resolution which concerned the new eu-us privacy shield. this is an agreement which is a commission proposal to create a new framework for exchange of data. it follows from the invalidation of the safe harbour agreement last year. this privacy shield agreement will not effectively shield citizen’s privacy rights. privacy shield does still allow us intelligence to collect massive and indiscriminate data, and it is expected that new challenges could be brought to the court. obama policy directive 28/2014 indicates the following six instances in which collection of large quantities of signals intelligence data is authorized: (1) espionage and other threats and activities directed by foreign powers or their intelligence services against the united states and its interests; (2) threats to the united states and its interests from terrorism; (3) threats to the united states and its interests from the development, possession, proliferation, or use of weapons of mass destruction; (4) cybersecurity threats; (5) threats to u.s. or allied armed forces or other u.s or allied personnel; and (6) transnational criminal threats, including illicit finance and sanctions evasion related to the other purposes named in this section.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out a series of guidelines on energy transition in favour of consumers who have started to generate their own energy through, for instance, private wind turbines on farms or solar panels on houses. the report calls for transparent and fairer pricing and says that the transition should result in a more efficient, sustainable, stable, decentralised and inclusive energy system so that citizens, local actors and communities can be empowered to produce and distribute energy from renewable sources. i was also happy to support this report as it calls for energy poverty to be addressed so that affordable energy becomes a basic social right. in light of the vast number of houses in ireland currently struggling to pay various household-related taxes and charges, this was an important point. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the ultimate goal here should be an economy based on 100% renewables, which can only be achieved through reducing our energy consumption, making full use of the ‘energy efficiency first/first fuel’ principle and prioritising energy savings and demand side measures over the supply side in order to meet our climate goals in line with the paris agreement 1.5° scenario, energy security, competitiveness and especially lower consumer bills.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as it does not support the democratisation of energy.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the report pressing for a new deal for energy consumers across the eu, to improve consumer choice, information and transparency, and to increase the eu-wide deployment of ict, which can reduce energy use and household bills. there should be an implementation of market liberalisation measures to tackle persistently high levels of market concentration, improve low levels of consumer switching, and for retail prices to better reflect falling wholesale costs. enhanced coordination at eu level to combat energy poverty through the sharing of best practices among member states and the development of a broad, common but non-quantitative definition of energy poverty is important. this should focus on the idea that access to affordable energy is a basic social right, providing a coherent and cohesive policy for consumers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no problems with its final outcome and welcome the aim of bringing the energy union together.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which outlines the need for more flexibility in energy sources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deplores the impact of austerity policies on women and underlines the crucial role of public services in combating poverty. it calls on the commission to introduce a comprehensive leave system comprising maternity, paternity, parental and carers’ leave to meet the needs of parents and ensure that women can continue to work after having children. the report incorporates proposals put forward by my sinn féin colleague lynn boylan in her parliamentary opinion on this report. the most significant sinn féin proposal which was approved by meps was our call for the introduction of paid leave for people experiencing domestic violence. we know that one in five women experience domestic abuse. british statistics show 20% of working women had to take a month off work in the previous year due to domestic violence, and 2% of working women actually lost their jobs as a result of it. paid leave would ensure their employment – and their economic independence – is protected when dealing with the impact of domestic violence, for example, by allowing people the time to manage medical appointments, court appearances and other duties that must be addressed in such situations.
in writing. ‒ this report identifies the persistent inequalities that women suffer. it highlights the efforts that need to be made by the eu and the member states to give to all, without distinction of gender, equal opportunities in the field of employment, social security, pay, education, child care and culture. it recalls the means, particularly financial, already available to europe and the member states to stem the trend towards the impoverishment of half the population.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that addresses persistent inequality issues such as the gender pay gap (16.3% in eu), the pension gap (39%) a lower employment rate of women vs men and the social exclusion of women. with more than 65 million women living in poverty compared to 57 million men, this report highlights the efforts that need to be made by the eu and the member states to advance equal opportunities in the field of employment, social security, pay, education, childcare and culture. in particular i agree with its focus on targeted investments that would help to break the vicious cycle of poverty. whether public or private, i fully support the need for investment with a view to better reconcile private and professional live, improving child elderly and disabled people’s care facilities, free public education and increasing women’s participation in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report as it contained some very progressive and positive provisions. my colleague lynn boylan proposed the introduction of paid domestic violence leave in europe through an opinion she recently authored in the european parliament’s employment and social affairs committee, and key aspects of this opinion were incorporated in this vote. the report included a provision where paid leave for survivors of domestic violence would become a right. this is a valuable new idea that has been introduced in australia and the us, and this week’s vote is the first time the european parliament has called for its introduction in europe. i am very pleased that my party sinn féin has successfully placed this proposal firmly on the agenda of the european parliament, and sinn féin will call on irish policy-makers to take this on board immediately and act to introduce this leave in ireland.
in writing. ‒ this report was based on the concerning premise that all non-tariff barriers in the european single market that can’t be justified under certain criteria should be abolished. the non-tariff barriers being referred to are barriers to intra-eu trade, which may be government regulations on the minimum wage, workers’ rights, food safety or environmental protection, for example. the so-called new generation of free trade agreements such as ceta and ttip are also aimed at removing these non-tariff barriers. despite paying lip service to exceptions for ‘legitimate public policy reasons’, the report amounts to a major infringement of governments’ right to regulate by stating that any ntbs must be justified under a pro-competition article of the treaty of the eu. it calls for urgent action by the commission and member states to reduce ntbs and promote competition. for these reasons, i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ the removal of ntbs will help businesses across the eu, but the main beneficiaries will be consumers. this is confirmed in the study prepared for the internal market and consumer protection committee, which notes that ‘the completion of the single market benefits some businesses, namely the most competitive and innovative ones, but all consumers through lower prices and increased choice.’ it is therefore in the interests of all member states, and the european parliament, to pursue the elimination of these ntbs, to the benefit of our consumers across europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the single market and competitiveness have been used as arguments to justify attacks on workers’ rights, social inequalities, labour deregulation, wage devaluation and increasingly precarious employment, while fairer, more redistributive tax policies have been wrecked or stymied.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the subject of non-tariff barriers in the single market. the single market is one of the pillars of the european union and the removal of non-tariff barriers would be a huge leap forward in the european single market economy and undoubtedly result in a more harmonised and prosperous union. while it is not feasible, nor economical, for all non-tariff barriers to be removed, a removal of certain non-tariff barriers would be a major contributor to european prosperity. due to the principle of subsidiarity, there will be a degree of national variation of regulatory practice which allows countries to compete with each other on the basis of different regulatory approaches. consumers across europe would benefit most from the removal of the non-tariff barriers because of the resulting lowered prices and the increased choice in goods and services.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it clearly addresses the challenges and obstacles that may arise in completing the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which acknowledges existing barriers to the proper functioning of the internal market and how these can be removed.
in writing. – this report raised concerns that the free movement of goods and services was being hampered by what are deemed as unjustified national technical rules and other regulatory and non-regulatory requirements. however, this is a mere masquerade as to what is a direct assault on a member state’s autonomy. each member state should have the right to regulate their own economy and any further depletions of a national government’s economic competencies by the eu will be challenged by my party.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which endorses the commission’s proposal on the single market strategy. both the commission proposal and this report focus on increasing competitiveness in the european single market, at the extent of secure jobs, workers’ rights and environmental protection. it calls for the repealing of ‘unnecessary legislation’ regulating businesses in member states, and for deepened enforcement of the strategy by the commission of member states. not only does this report promote a thoroughly neoliberal attitude towards the economy, it also calls for further serious infringements on member states’ sovereign rights. it states that member states must refrain from implementing taxation and trade laws that may discriminate against businesses from other member states (promoting harmonisation of trade and tax laws at eu level); endorses the capital markets union, which sinn féin strongly opposes, and calls for a single european vat rate.
in writing. ‒ existing businesses should be made more competitive by modernising business models, cutting back on barriers created by administration and taxation, and facilitating entry to other member statesʼ markets. the eu single market also needs to attract new businesses from outside the eu, and private investment. there should be support for new kinds of businesses, in particular start-ups and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, that promotes their ʽinnovativeʼ character and makes access to credit and eu funds easier and more efficient for them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that supports the overall objectives of the commissions new single market strategy that proposed actions for smes and start-ups such as simplification of vat regulation and reduction in company registration, a european agenda for the collaborative economy a services passport to reduce barriers for the service providers, and a legislative initiative to stop consumer discrimination based on a nationality or country of residence. in particular, i was happy to support the report where it underlines the importance of the indication of country of origin on products and where the report promotes the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report as it will help to clarify and strengthen the single market.
in writing. ‒ i support this report which calls for measures to help smaller businesses and start-ups.
in writing. – i voted against this report, which contained some very regressive and negative provisions. it is an alarming report which promotes austerity policies in addition to further transfers of sovereignty from national parliaments to the european union. the view of my party sinn féin is that the solution to the ongoing economic and financial crisis is not to continue with the same policies that have created this crisis, but a policy that puts the needs of people first and not those of the market. the single market strategy promotes a neo—liberal strategy which endorses austerity policies. the austerity measures being applied by undemocratic means in the eu countries worst hit by the crisis reflect the failure of the eu’s neo—liberal architecture. sinn féin are working in europe to urgently reverse this policy and deliver solidarity and job creation within an economic system that serves people not profit. the single market and competitiveness have been used as arguments to justify attacks on workers’ rights, social inequalities, labour deregulation, wage devaluation and increasingly precarious employment, while fairer, more redistributive tax policies have been obstructed. austerity is avoidable; it is a political choice that puts the interests of some above the interests of others.
mr president, i also want to welcome the commissioner to the chamber this evening and i welcome his work on this. it is important that the un and the eu work as partners as we approach the high-level meeting. as others have said, a huge amount has been done in this area in recent years, but we still have exceptionally large numbers of people across the globe who have to live with the reality of aids. forty million people have been affected. the reality is that 16 million people at least are living with aids as a consequence of having antiretroviral drugs following proper testing. i would make one point in this debate and it is this: i think we have become complacent in the european union on the prevalence of aids. in my own country the numbers last year were at the highest level of new cases for the past five years. at least one-third of people in ireland are not even aware that they are prone to obtain the virus and are possible carriers of the virus. so we have got to do much more within europe to address the issue while supporting the united nations, as we do in this area.
madam president, can i thank the rapporteur for his work on this and for his cooperation with our colleagues in the committee on agriculture and rural development where i drafted the opinion? clearly this is on the agenda, because it is a problem, i recall that since 2009 there have been five resolutions on this issue before the house, and it is still before us this evening. there are differences as to how you tackle it. can i just say in relation to the supply chain initiative that the reason it exists at all is because there was political pressure on the powerful in the food supply chain to take action. they would not have done so without consistent pressure from this house. anna maria corazza bildt was involved in this, as was i, with other colleagues as well. i hope this house will give a strong signal to the commissioner who is with us this evening that there will be eu action and attention to this issue. it is about producers and consumers, because consumer choice is impacted where the powerful have too much power, and when we want sustainable food supply chains, with an eye to the environment, we need those chains to be fair.
madam president, for decades agricultural science has focused on boosting production through the development of new technologies. it has achieved enormous yield gains as well as lower costs for large-scale farming and improved the working conditions of many farmers. but this success has come at a high environmental cost. furthermore, it has failed to solve the social and economic problems of the poor in developing countries, which have generally benefited the least from this boost in production. increasingly the power of the retailer in the food chain is eroding the margins of even the most efficient and modern producers, as seen now in the crisis in the dairy sector. no matter what advances we make, the farmer seems to end up with less. the report also does not address issues of food waste, estimated to be in the region of 30% of production globally. nor does it address the imbalance in the food chain or the weak position of the primary producer. there is definitely one technology out there that can benefit farmers, and that is social media, which make it possible to connect with customers directly without having to pay massive costs for marketing. we have one such company, castlemaine farms, in my constituency, and people are benefiting from it. that is how they will benefit from technology; with quality food.
madam president, the sharing economy, or collaborative economy, is here to stay. i think that, instead of fighting against it, we need to embrace the opportunities that it brings and ensure that there is a harmonised approach to regulation for member states in the spirit of the common market and in the interests of european consumers. european consumers are the biggest users of the sharing economy. a study carried out by the commission itself found that in france, for example, 36% of consumers had used the collaborative economy, such as airbnb or uber – and we know those names so well. in ireland a similar amount – 35% – of consumers have done so. the sharing economy in europe is estimated to be worth eur 10 billion, and forecast to grow to eur 250 billion over the next decade. it gives consumers and customers choice, it offers flexibility and it provides competition. those companies involved in the collaborative economy also create jobs and generate business for the local economy. so i welcome the recent presentation by the commission that looks to prevent a patchwork approach to regulation by member states and instead advocates one that allows new business models to develop, whilst protecting consumers, ensuring fair taxation, and addressing employment conditions, by advising how eu law should be applied in the sharing economy.
madam president, my question here this evening is: can irish politicians use the time—honoured excuse and say ‘brussels made us do it’ when it comes to the payment of water charges? the water framework directive gives member states a clear opt—out where they can decide, in accordance with established practice, not to apply water charges. so what are established practices? well, former commissioner potočnik answered that question in 2010 when he clarified ‘established practice’ as being at the time of the adoption of the directive. that is 2003, not 2010, 2014 or 2016. it is 2003. in 2014, the european court of justice found against the european commission when it took germany to court for not charging for certain water services, including consumption. the court was clear in its judgment. the eu legislature intended to allow member states to determine the measures to be adopted for the recovery of costs, without extending it to all services associated with water use. the court further states that the directive does not, per se, impose a generalised pricing obligation in respect of all activities of water use. in this case, what is good enough for germany is good enough for ireland, and those irish politicians who are trying to blame brussels while pursuing their own agendas have no legal basis for their argument.
mr president, my home country of ireland has a reputation as an enabler of massive tax avoidance for large corporations and the wealthiest in society, and unfortunately the perception is true. the irish government recently stated that it would phase out the notorious double irish tax system, but companies like google and microsoft have until 2021 to restructure their tax avoidance techniques. the government has now introduced a so-called knowledge box, a tax rate of 6.25% for certain companies. we know this will not foster innovation; it is just another tax avoidance mechanism, another hand-out of millions to multinationals. all the while irish and european authorities have pushed taxes and charges on ordinary families who are already struggling to cope. the loopholes in the irish system have been designed to perfectly complement the loopholes in the us tax law to benefit massive us corporations. we can see that the base erosion and profit shifting (beps) measures are not enough to deal with the scale of the problem and that an eu set of legislative measures is not the answer. the response needs to be truly international.
mr president, i think the general impression is that the smaller the company, the more tax they pay, and the bigger the company, the less tax they pay and the better they are at avoiding tax. this has been recognised globally and now measures have been put in place to deal with it – and rightly so, because it is costing the european union billions every year. having said that, i must take issue with my irish colleague from the gue/ngl group, mr carthy, who pointed the finger at his own country, ireland and indeed went into rather a lot of detail, which was totally unacceptable. i just want to remind him that angel gurria, secretary—general of the oecd, said of ireland, ‘i am very happy, very proud, to say ireland has been a strong and very exemplary case of adapting and adopting’. we fully support the commission’s measures on tax transparency. that is why we feel that the oecd beps proposals are the best ones right now. we must make sure that we do everything we can to ensure that they are adopted right across the european union. we do not think, though, that tax harmonisation is the way to go, because the setting of tax rates is a matter for the member states’ competence. having said that, there is huge scope for us to develop and to improve the situation so that all companies pay their fair share of tax within the european union, and so that we can continue to grow our companies and attract foreign direct investment into the european union and get jobs and growth, which is necessary.
mr president, i believe that the setting of tax rates is a member state competence and i think where reports such as this go beyond that particular competence, it is incumbent on all of us to take a stance against that. tax sovereignty, in my view, is a fundamental principle. it should be decided at a member state level and should not be imposed by this parliament, or other parliaments of the 28 member states of the european union. that is why the way to address the loopholes question – as the coordinator from the epp, burkhard balz, has said, and as has mr kelly – is to address it at the oecd level. the objective of the oecd base erosion and profit shifting (beps) process that my country is fundamentally in favour of, and has been leading, is to increase the tax take in europe, cut out aggressive tax planning, but not distort the market in such a way against european businesses in a circumstance where eu businesses pay 15% more than us businesses. we have to address that issue at its source. i believe parts of this proposal are rushed, there are unintended consequences here and, for people who claim to be in favour of tax sovereignty, they should read what is in this report before they vote tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think there are things we can cooperate on and i think that has to be done at eu level to reduce aggressive tax planning, but i fundamentally disagree with you. i believe that tax competition is a good thing. it is a way of ensuring that we can promote industrial policy in poorer parts of the european union, peripheral parts of the european union, parts of the european union that did not have colonies, parts of the european union where there was no industrial revolution, parts of the european union where there is now a strong industrial and enterprise culture. that is good for europe. it is good for smaller member states. it is good for peripheral countries, and it is something we should stand up for and defend.
the president, initially, agreed to the laws and commissioner hill agreed to a package that would be in place until 1 january 2018 but it is much better to do it earlier than later than later. therefore, it is commendable. this is extremely important legislation for a european union that is in recovery, following the huge hit taken in the global recession. i welcome the move towards well-regulated and well-functioning financial markets in the eu. financial markets are vital to our economy and for generating the funds needed for growth and recovery to occur. this is clear. however, these markets need to be well regulated, as failure to do so can have detrimental effects on the economy. i particularly welcome legislation on improving investor protection. measures to prevent conflicts of interest and to improve transparency in this regard were long overdue and are much needed, and i look forward to their implementation. new stringent requirements in communication and disclosure will greatly contribute to reducing dishonest practices and hopefully eliminate the possibilities for opportunistic intermediaries to exploit less experienced investors and consumers for personal financial gain. in a broader context, this legislation will surely play a big part in stabilizing our economy for the years ahead. it should help us to prevent speculative bubbles from occurring once again which would plunge us back into recession. i welcome these measures.
in writing. – this is a huge step in the right direction in the fight against smuggled and illicit tobacco products. tobacco products, both illicit and legal, cause unfathomable harm to the health and well-being of citizens. smoking has recently been identified as the single greatest cause of preventable illness and premature death in the north of ireland. the illicit trade in tobacco products is a scourge that affects all of europe and ireland is no exception. it costs the north of ireland ukp 450 million each year. internal company documents reveal that smuggling became an integral part of tobacco companies’ business strategies and according to customs, imperial brand, the world’s fourth-largest international cigarette company, accounted for 55% of the 17 billion cigarettes smuggled into ‘britain and the north’ every year. the passing of this report means that the european union is now under pressure to ratify and enforce the world health organisation’s protocol on the elimination of the illicit trade in tobacco products. when ratified this protocol will see countries collaborate in the fight against the illegal trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which constituted giving consent for the eu to conclude the protocol to eliminate trade in tobacco products to the world health organisation’s framework convention on tobacco control. i voted in favour as i think that the problems stemming from this illicit trade can be dealt the best through international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported this as tobacco smuggling is a serious crime which affects tax revenue in member states. this lost revenue could be used to support programmes to help people quit smoking, as well as contribute towards the medical costs of tobacco-related illness.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i think that the problems stemming from the illicit trade and illicit trade in itself can be dealt the best through international cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i support the draft legislative resolution calling on increased judicial cooperation in criminal matters in relation to illicit trade in tobacco product. enhanced international cooperation, valid information sharing, technical and law enforcement cooperation, mutual legal and administrative assistance are all necessary measures in the fight against illegal tobacco trading in europe. cooperation between the member states will strengthen the european stance against criminal activity and also boost support for healthy living. the establishment of a global information sharing point on tobacco control would help direct the creation of national and regional tracking and tracing systems.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it is the first global response to the tobacco epidemic we are now experiencing. by ratifying this who framework, parliament will be making a significant contribution to the ftc protocols’ swift entry into force and implementation. this will allow for provisions to be made to tackle the wide range of problems which should lead to successes in reducing tobacco-related deaths and diseases worldwide.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that looks at supply chain control, licensing and global tracking, we must work towards reducing tobacco related illnesses.
in writing. – this was a technical report which was concerned with a simple consent procedure. therefore, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical update to a 1958 agreement concerning prescriptions for certain wheeled vehicles. this issue will be dealt with at the upcoming session of the un’s general assembly. having a universal approach at un level allows all interested parties to take place. therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote on uniform technical prescriptions for wheeled vehicles.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because i think that matters concerning universal prescriptions should indeed take place on the international level allowing all interested parties to take part.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this motion for a resolution. the automotive industry and the related auxiliary industries are a core economic sector for the european union and provides jobs for 12 million people as well as accounting for 4% of the eu’s gdp. in order to strengthen the competitiveness of this automotive industry, the eu must provide support to provide global technological harmonisation. the unece framework helps reduce development costs, reduce costs of production and certification and avoid duplication of administrative procedures. therefore, the eu’s whole automotive industry would benefit from the unece resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it contributes to the european automotive industry by removing unnecessary barriers to trade and strengthening the competitiveness of the industry within europe. this will aid the industry to maintain a strong global presence.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which removes technical barriers to trading motor vehicles.
in writing. – this was a technical report which was concerned with the croatia joining the eu-colombia/ peru free trade agreement. as i oppose the free trade agreement, and am also concerned about serious human rights violations in colombia, i abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote, which would see croatia acceding to the eu-columbia and peru trade agreement. as i opposed the fta in the first instance, i abstained on allowing croatia to join.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote. following the accession of croatia to the eu, the trade agreement between the european union, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, needs to take account to the accession of croatia to the eu. the council decision lays out an additional protocol adjusting the commitments made by the eu and member states to the accession of croatia as the multi-party free trade agreement between the eu and peru/colombia has been concluded before the accession of croatia to the eu council to enable its participation.
in writing. ‒ abstained. no opinion.
in writing. ‒ the additional protocol to the trade agreement between the eu and peru seeks to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union. it liberalises trade in agricultural and industrial products as well as in services. it contains provisions on the origin of goods, technical barriers to trade, sanitary measures, competition, intellectual property and public procurement. this protocol will aide croatia’s integration as a member state of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it supports the full participation of croatia within the european union after its accession.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. the file concerns opening of enhanced cooperation between 17 member states to define rules applicable for jurisdiction, applicable law and recognition and enforcement of decisions for international couples. the content of any agreement has not been agreed yet, however the participating countries have stated that any rules will not seek to change the content of family law applicable in each of the participating member states, nor affect their right to define what is considered as a registered partnership or the right to gay marriage. the agreement merely hopes to set out rules governing procedural rights in case of a conflict between jurisdictions. it was disappointing that ireland and britain have opted out as it is conflicts such as these which can cause unnecessary delays which led to obstructions and excessive legal costs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which concerned opening enhanced cooperation between 17 member states in order to define the rules applicable for jurisdiction, applicable law and the enforcement of decisions for international couples. although the content for any potential piece of legislation has not been agreed yet, preliminary frameworks state that future rules would not seek to change the content of family law in any participating eu country, or affect their right to define marriage or registered partnerships. therefore, i am disappointed that ireland opted out. solving these kinds of procedural problems for international couples would have gone a long way to reducing unnecessary bureaucracy.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote on enhanced cooperation in the area of property regimes of international couples.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour. positive for citizens.
in writing. ‒ cooperation between member states in the area of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the property regimes of international couples, covering both matters of matrimonial property regimes will benefit international couples and facilitate for them a clear and comprehensive legal framework which ensures adequate solutions for them in terms of legal certainty, predictability and flexibility. it would also enable couples from different member states to have various procedures handled by the same court and thereby avoid parallel proceedings and conflicting judicial decisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no objections in relation to the final result.
in writing. – this is a huge step in the right direction in the fight against smuggled and illicit tobacco products. tobacco products, both illicit and legal, cause unfathomable harm to the health and well-being of citizens. smoking has recently been identified as the single greatest cause of preventable illness and premature death in the north of ireland. the illicit trade in tobacco products is a scourge that effects all of europe and ireland is no exception. it costs the north of ireland ukp 450 million each year. internal company documents reveal that smuggling became an integral part of tobacco companies’ business strategies and according to customs, imperial brand, the world’s fourth-largest international cigarette company, accounted for 55% of the 17 billion cigarettes smuggled into ‘britain and the north’ every year. the passing of this report means that the european union is now under pressure to ratify and enforce the world health organisation’s protocol on the elimination of the illicit trade in tobacco products. when ratified this protocol will see countries collaborate in the fight against the illegal trade in tobacco products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was authored by my sinn féin comrade martina anderson. the report is aimed at putting pressure on the eu to ratify and enforce the world health organisation’s protocol on the elimination of illicit trade in tobacco products. international collaboration is necessary in order to clamp down on illegal smuggling, which has become an integral part of business strategies in order to avoid customs duties. with smoking as a leading cause of premature death and illness in ireland, i was happy to support this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this protocol which covers areas related to judicial cooperation in criminal matters, the definition of criminal offences and police cooperation in relation to tobacco smuggling.
in writing. ‒ i voted because it forces the tobacco companies into line.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution for the who framework convention on tobacco control. cigarette smuggling is a criminal activity which poses a serious threat to public health and causes huge losses of revenue to the eu in terms of unpaid taxes and customs duties. the ratification of the fctc protocol will benefit public health and help the international fight against illicit tobacco trade, tax evasion and organised crime. lung cancer is a serious health issues for millions of eu citizens and this convention would help to curtail smoking induced cancer as well as augment member states’ via additional taxes and custom duties.
in writing. ‒ i supported this protocol, as it will aid the eradication of the illegal trading of tobacco products, whilst also encouraging international cooperation in the area.
in writing. – i voted against this report which aims to amend a directive regulating some of the financial instruments that contributed to the global financial crisis. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the regulation on markets in financial instruments (mifir) were adopted in the aftermath of the crisis. mifid and mifir (collectively referred to as mifid ii) cover securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. the initial intention of this directive was to ‘quick fix’ the date of entry into application of mifid ii, which is scheduled to be applied in january 2017 after member states transpose it by july 2016. but a number of delegated acts have been delayed and the commission has proposed to postpone the application date by one year, until january 2018. while i understand the reasons for the postponement, the finance lobby, backed by conservative meps and the council, have tried to use the delay to revisit the content of the mifid ii in order to water down regulation of financial instruments. i oppose any further changes to the text of mifid ii by the european parliament and the council because deregulation of these instruments is exactly what caused the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which aims to amend a directive regulating of some of the financial instruments that contributed to the global financial crisis. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the regulation on markets in financial instruments (mifir) were adopted in the aftermath of the crisis. mifid and mifir (collectively referred to as mifid ii) cover securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. the initial intention of this directive was to ‘quick fix’ the date of entry into application of mifid ii, which is scheduled to be applied in january 2017 after member states transpose it by july 2016. but a number of delegated acts have been delayed and the commission has proposed to postpone the application date by one year, until january 2018. while i understand the reasons for the postponement, the finance lobby, backed by conservative meps and the council, have tried to use the delay to revisit the content of the mifid ii in order to water down regulation of financial instruments. i oppose any further changes to the text of mifid ii by the european parliament and the council because deregulation of these instruments is exactly what caused the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote to provide harmonised regulation for investment services across the eu. the directive's main objectives are to increase competition and consumer protection in investment services.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i disagree with the changes to mifid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2014/65/eu on markets in financial instruments as regards certain dates. pursuant to article 93 of directive 2014/65/eu, the member states were to apply the measures transposing that directive from 3 january 2017. however, due to the size and complexity of the data to be collected and processed for the new framework to become operational, in particular for transaction reporting, transparency calculations and reporting of positions in commodity derivatives and stakeholders, esma and ncas are not in a position to ensure that the necessary data collection infrastructures will be in place and become operational by that date. in light of the exceptional circumstances and in order to enable esma, ncas and stakeholders to complete the operational implementation, it is appropriate to defer the date by which the member states need to apply the measures transposing this directive and the date by which the repeal of directive 2004/39/ec is to take effect by 12 months until 3 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text as it provides for harmonised regulation for investment services within the eu, allowing for increased competition and consumer protection in the area of investment services.
in writing. – i voted against this report which aims to amend a directive regulating some of the financial instruments that contributed to the global financial crisis. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the regulation on markets in financial instruments (mifir) were adopted in the aftermath of the crisis. mifid and mifir (collectively referred to as mifid ii) cover securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. the initial intention of this directive was to ‘quick fix’ the date of entry into application of mifid ii, which is scheduled to be applied in january 2017 after member states transpose it by july 2016. but a number of delegated acts have been delayed and the commission has proposed to postpone the application date by one year, until january 2018. while i understand the reasons for the postponement, the finance lobby, backed by conservative meps and the council, have tried to use the delay to revisit the content of the mifid ii in order to water down regulation of financial instruments. i oppose any further changes to the text of mifid ii by the european parliament and the council because deregulation of these instruments is exactly what caused the financial crisis.
in writing. – i voted against this report which aims to amend a directive regulating of some of the financial instruments that contributed to the global financial crisis. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the regulation on markets in financial instruments (mifir) were adopted in the aftermath of the crisis. mifid and mifir (collectively referred to as mifid ii) cover securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. the initial intention of this directive was to ‘quick fix’ the date of entry into application of mifir, which is scheduled to be applied in january 2017 after member states transpose it by july 2016. but a number of delegated acts have been delayed and the commission has proposed to postpone the application date by one year, until january 2018. while i understand the reasons for the postponement, the finance lobby, backed by conservative meps and the council, have tried to use the delay to revisit the content of the mifir in order to water down regulation of financial instruments. i oppose any further changes to the text of mifir by the european parliament and the council because deregulation of these instruments is exactly what caused the financial crisis.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote to provide harmonised regulation for investment services across the eu. the directive's main objectives are to increase competition and consumer protection in investment services. in april 2014, the european parliament approved both mifid ii, an updated version of the original mifid law, and mifid ii's accompanying regulation, mifir. both mifid ii and mifir and must generally apply within member states by 3 january 2017. however, in february 2016 the european commission formally proposed delayed the implementation date by a year. the new deadline is january 2018. the extension allows for the building of complex it systems to enable enforcement of the new package.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because apart from the new implementation dates i disagree with the changes to mifir.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 600/2014 on markets in financial instruments, regulation (eu) no 596/2014 on market abuse and regulation (eu) no 909/2014 on improving securities settlement in the european union and on central securities depositories as regards certain dates. these regulations are major pieces of financial legislation that were adopted in the wake of the financial crisis as regards securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. they establish requirements in relation to authorisation and operation of investment firms, regulated markets and data reporting services providers. in order to ensure legal certainty and avoid potential market disruption, it is necessary to take urgent action to defer the entry into application of the whole framework, including all delegated and implementing acts by 12 months until 3 january 2018.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal as the delay will allow for a more compressive package to be enforced due to the creation of a more complex accompanying it system
in writing. – i voted against this report which aims to amend a directive regulating of some of the financial instruments that contributed to the global financial crisis. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) and the regulation on markets in financial instruments (mifir) were adopted in the aftermath of the crisis. mifid and mifir (collectively referred to as mifid ii) cover securities markets, investment intermediaries and trading venues. the initial intention of this directive was to ‘quick fix’ the date of entry into application of mifir, which is scheduled to be applied in january 2017 after member states transpose it by july 2016. but a number of delegated acts have been delayed and the commission has proposed to postpone the application date by one year, until january 2018. while i understand the reasons for the postponement, the finance lobby, backed by conservative meps and the council, have tried to use the delay to revisit the content of the mifir in order to water down regulation of financial instruments. i oppose any further changes to the text of mifir by the european parliament and the council because deregulation of these instruments is exactly what caused the financial crisis.
in writing. – i voted against this report as there were concerns raised that the candidate who was previously a politician in lithuania, would not able to ensure that he would be able to perform the duties in the court of auditors with the necessary degree of independence. moreover, i was further concerned that the court of auditors is gender unbalanced, as the majority compromising the board are male. this nomination further aggravates this existing imbalance, as the candidate is a man. my colleague lynn boylan has been actively involved in shaping the eu directive on improving gender balance on boards. sinn féin has called on the irish government to follow the example of other european countries in introducing legislation to ensure that gender balance on boards is addressed. gender quotas are a crude instrument but are a necessary tool in the kit to begin addressing the gender imbalance. women making up just 10% of irish corporate boards is not good enough. 36% representation on state boards, while an improvement, still falls short of a target of 40% that was set in 1993. we must do better and with these concerns in mind, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination, for the same reasons as i voted against the other nominations earlier this year. gender diversity is something that sinn féin is committed to, and as not a single nomination was for a female candidate, in addition to serious questions around the qualifications and suitability of those put forward, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i would like to keep my ballot private to respect this secret ballot
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this appointment as i had no objections to the candidate.
in writing. – whilst this report contained some positive provisions specifically in relation to human rights, the environment, refugees, tax avoidance and the rights of individual countries to determine their own development policies, it also contained some very regressive provisions regarding the proposed common security and defence policy. there was an entire section on security and development within the report which promotes the importance of the ‘security-development nexus’ and eu external action in defence and security. it calls for reinforcing links between the common security and defence policy and development instruments. i strongly believe matters of defence and security are the competency of established national authorities and no attempt should be made to create, or move towards the creation of, a common security and defence policy. therefore, whilst the report contained some progressive elements these failed to mitigate the worst excesses of the report, and therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. while it raised some positive provisions in relation to human rights, the environment, refugees and tax avoidance, it contained some very regressive provisions regarding the eu’s common security and defence policy (csdp). sinn féin is committed to irish neutrality, and ensuring that any decisions taken with regard to security and defence are taken at a national level. as this report is aimed at exporting these decisions to intergovernmental meetings held behind closed doors, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, of which the main objective is to take stock of the progress made, identify areas to improve existing eu mechanisms on pcd, and stimulate the debate about the future of the concept at eu level. the previous ep reports have played a pivotal role in advancing the concept of pcd by institutionalising a standing rapporteur on pcd in the committee on development, affirming that pcd is a matter for which the ep is politically responsible (as co-legislator and in its role as the democratically elected institution), and putting forward concrete proposals to operationalise further the concept at eu level.
in writing. ‒ the report included some very positive issues and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on policy cohesion for development as it is a key element for delivering and achieving the new sustainable development agenda. the sustainable development goals that apply to both developed and developing countries need to be comprehensively integrated into the eu’s decision-making process at both internal and external levels. in particular, i was pleased that the report emphasised the need for institutional coordination both between eu institutions and with member states. i was also pleased that the report acknowledged that the eu is facing its biggest refugee crisis since world war ii and stressed the need to strengthen the link between migration and development policies in order to address the root causes of the crisis. i believe that the eu should use all the tools at its disposal to tackle the crisis, including security and diplomatic instruments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no objections to the final document.
mr president, i supported this report, particularly where it calls for countries to put in place binding national measures against land grabbing., and i also want to acknowledge that it is very important that agriculture is now firmly on the agenda for development policy. clearly food security and nutrition are very much linked to agriculture policy. so this is particularly welcome. i think there are sensitivities on what technologies we would allow, or say that developing countries should, or should not, use. i think we should allow them to make those choices rather than us insisting that they are restricted in the use of any technologies; i include in that plant breeding technologies. the developing world needs an agriculture policy to encourage its farmers to give them the tools and knowledge to produce food, so that they will have food security and nutrition.
mr president, having worked myself on a voluntary basis in malawi a few years ago, i have seen the poverty there and i see the way forward. and that is why i welcome this report. i support the epp vote in favour as it is hugely important to support family farming and local agriculture in order to support a developing country. ireland is a strong agricultural economy, and i am happy to be able to support an initiative that aims to improve the livelihoods of the farming community in sub-saharan africa. agricultural investment policies in africa should be linked to and support the development of the local economy, including family farming and smaller landholders, along with bigger commercial farms. the new alliance has made a commitment to promote inclusive agricultural-based growth that supports small-scale farming and helps reduce poverty, hunger and under-nutrition in countries in sub-saharan africa.
in writing. – by way of background information, the new alliance for food security and nutrition in africa (nafsn) is a huge agricultural public-private partnership which is used in sub-saharan africa with the stated aim of improving food security and reducing hunger. in reality however, the nafsn whose main private actors are multinationals underpins and promotes an agricultural model based on monoculture and production of export crops, and has been reported as a risk factor in the facilitation of land grabs and ultimately failing to achieve its objectives. small-scale farmers have been side-lined in favour of the will of much larger agribusinesses. this report from a green rapporteur highlights the problems with this ppp and the need for stronger governance structures which currently are lacking in the implementation of nafsn as well as the need to support family farms and smallholders as a more sustainable way to achieve food security and elimination of hunger. therefore, i voted in favour of this report as it contained some very positive and progressive provisions and proactively worked to implement sustainable solutions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which deals with the new alliance for food security and nutrition (nafsn) in africa. this is basically a huge agricultural public-private partnership, used in sub-saharan african with the stated aim of improving food security and reducing hunger. in actual fact though, the nafsn, which deals with large multinationals, promotes an agricultural model based on monoculture and the production of export crops. small-scale farmers have been side-lined in favour of much larger agribusinesses. this report highlighted these problems and calls for greater governance structures for the implementation of the programme, as well as the need to support family farms and smallholders. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for resolution, which emphasises that agricultural investment policies in africa should be linked and support the development of the local economy, including smallholders and family farming. in this respect nafsn has made a commitment to promoting inclusive, agriculture-based growth that supports small-scale farming and helps reduce poverty, hunger and under-nutrition. therefore the parties to nafsn should submit annual reports on the action taken under nafsn and to make those reports public and accessible to local people and communities. moreover, the report calls on african governments to invest in local food systems in order to boost rural economies, ensure decent jobs, equitable social safety nets and labour rights and to improve arrangements for democratic scrutiny of access to resources.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it was positive overall.
in writing. ‒ the motion for resolution on the new alliance for food security and nutrition is an invaluable strategy for sustainability and development in sub-saharan africa. the new alliance will promote security, nutrition and sustainable family farming practices which boosts food security through healthy living soils and productive agro—ecosystems. the alliance will also support the funding of agricultural investment in africa, calling on donors to align official development assistance (oda) with the development effectiveness principles, support education, training and technical counselling for farmers, and promote the forming of farmers’ organisations of a professional and economic nature. the alliance plan aims to reduce and ultimately eradicate poverty by focusing on the development of small scale farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no objections to its final form.
in writing. – i abstained on this own-initiative report that evaluates 10 years of implementation of the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and the international standards on auditing (isa) set by the international accounting standards board (iasb) in the eu. the report is a response to the commission’s evaluation of the implementation and makes proposals to the iasb, which is in the process of creating a globally applicable standard for financial reporting. there are positive aspects to this in terms of regulating financial instruments so that they provide more accurate and transparent information to investors (for example about risk) and in challenging the ability of companies to falsify their records. however, i believe this report should have also called for improving the governance of the standard-setting organisations to ensure their independence from corporations, which was opposed by conservatives at committee level, meaning it was not included in the final report. i also object to the overall goal of the report which states the proposals on standards are primarily aimed at ensuring the efficient functioning of the capital markets union, a concept i am strongly opposed to. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on isas. the report makes proposals on the way the standards are endorsed, on the governance of the different standard-setter institutions, and others. the report considers that the democratic scrutiny is an important element and that parliament, the commission and the council must be involved in the development of financial reporting standards and the endorsement process in order to guarantee the overall coherence and appropriateness of accounting and reporting principles.
in writing. ‒ i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on international accounting standards (ias) evaluation and the activities of the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) foundation, the european financial reporting advisory group (efrag) and the public interest oversight board (piob). the ifrs and the isa form an important part of the eu financial services regulation and supervisory framework and interact with a multitude of other pieces of eu financial services regulation, inter alia in the area of prudential regulation. i was pleased that the report underlined the important role of accounting standards for the development of a single capital market in the european union, in particular in the context of the capital markets union (cmu) project. i was also pleased that the report also stressed how ias strengthened the competitiveness of the european economy by allowing companies to attract capital and investments on global capital markets. the effects of applying ifrs in the european union in the last ten years have therefore been positive overall.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it approves the use of high-quality globally applicable accounting standards which have led to improvements in the industry on a global scale.
in writing. – i abstained on this own-initiative report, which evaluates 10 years of implementation of the international financial reporting standards (ifrs) and the international standards on auditing (isa) set by the international accounting standards board (iasb) in the eu. the report is a response to the commission’s evaluation of the implementation and makes proposals to the iasb which is in the process of creating a globally applicable standard for financial reporting. there are positive aspects to this in terms of regulating financial instruments so that they provide more accurate and transparent information to investors (for example about risk) and in challenging the ability of companies to falsify their records. however, i believe this report should have also called for improving the governance of the standard-setting organisations to ensure their independence from corporations, which was opposed by conservatives at committee level, meaning it was not included in the final report. i also object to the overall goal of the report which states the proposals on standards are primarily aimed at ensuring the efficient functioning of the capital markets union, a concept i am strongly opposed to. for these reasons i abstained.
the president, again, made no effort to give support to the report to my group and to the other people. the report looks at the current state of peace support operations in africa supported by the un and the african union. it focuses in particular on the contribution from the european union. the report outlines that the united nations is the main guarantor of peace and security internationally, with over 120,000 personnel deployed across the world, the vast majority of whom are currently serving in africa on peacekeeping missions. the eu's primary mechanism for cooperation with africa is the african peace facility (apf). the apf action programme addresses shortcomings, places stronger emphasis on exit strategies and increased burden sharing with african countries, targeted support and improved decisionmaking procedures. the report considers apf to be an entry point and potential lever for creating a stronger partnership between the eu and the african union in the future.
in writing. – i voted against this report as while there were positive aspects in relation to supporting peacekeeping, the progressive elements failed to mitigate the worst excesses of the report, and therefore i could not support it. the report demanded that eu member states significantly increase their military and police contributions to un missions which is completely unacceptable. moreover, it proposed increased cooperation between the united nations, african union, nato and eu which my party would fundamentally oppose. in my view nato is nothing more than a cold war relic that needs to be disbanded. european countries need to increase their spending on social programmes, on job creation programmes, on education, and on healthcare. they certainly don’t need to spend more money on weapons of mass destruction. sinn féin is fully committed to irish neutrality and firmly opposes the erosion of irish neutrality by consecutive governments. we will continue to resist the militarisation of the european union and any attempts by irish governments to join military alliances.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which although dealing with eu contribution to peace support operations, also contained many calls for closer cooperation between the un, african union and nato. as ireland is not a member of nato, and sinn féin is committed to defending irish neutrality, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which outlines that the united nations is the main guarantor of international peace and security with over 120 000 personnel dispatched, a vast majority of which is serving in africa. the deteriorating international environment influences significantly the very nature and operational requirements of these missions (counter-terrorism in particular). it reminds about the constraints, challenges and limitations related to such operations. due to frequent multi-deployment of operations in the same theatre it calls for enhanced communication, planning, analysis of missions and coordination between regional and international actors as to achieve an effective division of labour and sufficient levels of added value.
in writing. ‒ i voted against more honey for the weapons industry bees.
in writing. ‒ due to the fact that the security landscape in africa has changed dramatically in the last decade with the emergence of several terrorist groups throughout the region, coordinated external actions that make use of diplomatic, security and development tools are necessary to restore confidence and tackle the challenges of wars, internal conflicts, insecurity, fragility and transition. in this regard, i support the peace support operations (psos) as a response to crises and designed to prevent armed conflict, restore, maintain or build peace, enforce peace agreements and tackle the complex emergencies and challenges posed by failing or weak states. these psos help to stabilise and secure regions which are experiencing conflict.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it calls for procedures which will increase the efficiency of peace support operations.
mr president, i can be very brief and say that on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development agriculture we welcome the strong support for this report. we worked with our colleagues in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) on this and it highlights very clearly that 600 members in this chamber believe that we do need more action to tackle unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. i think this sends a strong signal to the commission and to all actors in the food supply chain about the political concerns around this issue. none of us has the ideal solution, but all of us have identified with the problems that exist, where there is an imbalance of power between those at one end of the food supply chain, and producers at the lower end. this report, as i say, gives a strong message that further action is needed, and i hope the commission will listen and respond.
the president, once again, voted with my group in favour of this report because it deals with unfair trading practices. the word "unfair" is more or less accepted as a reality and it has to be dealt with. it looks at the way to evaluate the situation around this practice and the most appropriate ways to give food producers and retailers adequate protection against these unfair trading practices. the report looked at issues such as the effectiveness of voluntary schemes, the supply chain initiative, private own-brand label products and the fear factor in commercial relations. there was a big question about whether we should have a harmonised legislative approach at eu level or not. at the end of the day, the committee and the epp decided that they would stick with a voluntary scheme, identifying unfair trading practices and addressing all the challenges faced within the eu when tackling unfair trading practices. i hope the report will lead to the elimination of unfair trading practices but i will not hold my breath.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which was a very positive report which sought to address unfair trading practices (utps). utps are a particular issue in the food supply chain where there are serious imbalances between farmers and smes and larger actors in the food supply chain such as supermarkets and can include (but is not limited to): payment delays; exerting untoward pressure to cut prices; retroactive changes to a contract; and sudden and unjustified cancellations of contracts. supermarkets especially abuse their power in the food supply chain by selling key products below the cost of production, and staples such as fruit and veg as well as dairy are sold as ‘loss leaders’. the report criticises the supply chain initiative, a voluntary stakeholder dialogue set up by the european commission to work on the issue. many farmers’ representatives have not joined this voluntary forum as it has been widely criticised and it lacks the mechanisms to seriously tackle the issues and have any real effect. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the commission to come forward with meaningful legislation to tackle imbalances in the food supply chain. measures to combat unfair trading practices have largely operated on a voluntary approach thus far and have been wholly ineffective. the current model of a voluntary stakeholder dialogue set up by the european commission has done little to meaningfully address imbalances. i was therefore pleased that this week the european parliament voted in favour of amendments which call on the commission to bring forward legislative proposals, echoing the calls of farming organisations for a mixed system combining regulatory and non-regulatory solutions.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, the aim of which is to evaluate the situation and to look for the most appropriate ways of giving food producers and retailers an adequate protection against unfair trading practices (utps). the report also tackle such issues as an effectiveness of the voluntary scheme – supply chain initiative, private own—brand labelled products and the fear factor in commercial relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as action is needed to tackle utps in the food supply chain.
in writing. ‒ i was very happy to support this report, along with the majority of my colleagues. it is obvious that many large retailers and processors abuse their position in the food supply chain with ordinary farmers. this has the unfortunate effect of making farmers price takers and it leaves them with a very weak bargaining position with retailers. it also has led to a situation whereby large retailers and processors can abuse their dominant position which, although not illegal, is very questionable. considering the current weak agricultural markets, where farmers are receiving very low prices for their products, even below the cost of production, it is necessary that an adequate legal framework is in place so that farmers are protected and can achieve a fair price for their produce. that is why i supported the commission bringing forward legislation on utps. however, i was disappointed that within the report it did not specify when the commission should bring forward such legislation. on another note, i was happy that the report did acknowledge and support farmers joining producer organisations as one way to combat utps.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as i had no objections to the final balanced consensus.
mr president, in this report can i in particular draw attention to paragraph 74 which talks about risk-based analysis and independent scientific evidence? in this house we need to look at and debate the difference between a hazard and the risk-based analysis which this report supports and calls for. but i also want to remind colleagues of paragraph 33, where we call on the commission to ensure that consumers and farmers are sufficiently educated in new and emerging breeding techniques, so as to have an open and informed public debate on these issues. i think that we should be working to make this happen, because in the past we have not had an informed public debate on various technologies, which has led to resistance and indeed sometimes total objection to them. i do not want this to continue happening.
mr president, global food demand is increasing and is expected to increase by 70% by 2050. healthy food and optimal nutrition is one of the biggest challenges facing the world today and in the future. challenges to an increasing global food demand include shrinking land availability, environmental loss and degradation, water shortages, increased energy demand and the emergence of new pests and diseases. all of these challenges are putting huge pressure on the agricultural sector and so they must be properly addressed. new technologies have the potential to play an important role in making farming more productive and sustainable and allow the agricultural sector to overcome these many challenges. it is important to ensure there is a vibrant agricultural sector within the eu and a wide range of innovative technologies should be developed across all farming types. irish companies have been at the forefront of developing agricultural technology for many years now. a combination of ireland’s large high-tech talent pool along with ireland’s strong agricultural sector has meant that ireland has the capacity to develop many innovative agricultural technologies that are badly needed.
in writing. – i voted against this report, which sought to loosen the rules for approval of new breeding practices for plants and animals, and pesticides. the report effectively wanted to set aside certain ‘low-risk’ substances, that could side-step approval processes, without having subjected them to any risk analysis at all. much of the report was an attempt to deregulate the approval process for pesticides, which in light of recent controversies, is not at all appropriate. i also did not find statements about the need for intensification of food production to justify weakening current approval processes. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which sought to loosen the rules for approval of new breeding practices for plants and animals, and pesticides. the report effectively wanted to set aside certain ‘low-risk’ substances, that could side-step approval processes, without having subjected them to any risk analysis at all. much of the report was an attempt to deregulate the approval process for pesticides, which in light of recent controversies, is not at all appropriate. i also did not find statements about the need for intensification of food production to justify weakening current approval processes. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ global food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050 and healthy food and optimal nutrition is one of the biggest challenges facing the world. shrinking land availability, environmental loss and degradation, shortages of water, increased energy demand, and the emergence of new pests and diseases are placing considerable pressure on the agricultural sector. in this respect, new technologies can play a vital role in making farming more productive and sustainable. i supported this report which focuses on the eu becoming a world leader in agricultural technology, innovation and sustainability, while ensuring that the benefits of technological innovation are available to all our farmers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because the report is a trumpet for gm.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. however, i did vote against a number of paragraphs which focused on plant breeding with non-conventional breeding techniques, which include new genetic engineering techniques and called on the european commission to deregulate these and allow their use in agriculture. likewise, i voted against calls for the possibility of provisional approval of so-called ‘low risk substances’. criteria for such substances are not defined, and chemical substances should not in any case be put in the same category as naturally occurring substances. thankfully, these paragraphs did not make it into the final report. overall, the report did make some very good recommendations for european agriculture and it clearly highlighted some of the major pressures it faces. for example, as the global population rises, satisfying the demand for healthy food and optimal nutrition is one of the biggest challenges facing the world. shrinking land availability, environmental loss and degradation, water shortages, increased energy demand, and the emergence of new pests and diseases are placing considerable pressure on our natural environment. this means farmers are finding it harder to produce food in a sustainable way. to combat this, technological innovation is needed, as this report clearly acknowledges.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report as it is vital that new technologies play a role in providing nutritious and healthy food while food demand increases in the future.
in writing. – i voted against this report, which sought to loosen the rules for approval of new breeding practices for plants and animals, and pesticides. the report effectively wanted to set aside certain ‘low-risk’ substances, that could side-step approval processes, without having subjected them to any risk analysis at all. much of the report was an attempt to deregulate the approval process for pesticides which, in the light of recent controversies, is not at all appropriate. i also did not find statements about the need for intensification of food production to justify weakening current approval processes. for these reasons i voted against.
the president, again, did not try to vote on the report in august and in fact he was very happy with the final report on the negotiations. the report highlights the importance of innovation when developing sustainable agriculture and how innovation can improve the economic prospects of producers. it emphasises that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive. innovation and research have an important role to play in fulfilling both objectives of better economic prospects and sustainable production. small and medium-sized farms are a hugely important part of european agriculture: it is essential that the benefits of innovation and research in agriculture reach small and medium-sized farms. it's not just high-production farms that benefit. the same applies to disadvantaged regions such as mountainous and peripheral regions. agriculture producers in these disadvantaged areas have to be able to benefit from innovation and research. agriculture is very important to my country, accounting for eur 9 billion exported, or 10% of our total exports, and employing over 150 000 people.
in writing. – i voted against this report, which had as its overall aim the increased use of robotics and gps driven machinery in agriculture, having the overall effect of taking farmers off the land. as an mep from a vastly rural constituency, i oppose this move to take farmers off the land, it having an overall effect of decreasing jobs and removing the beating pulse of rural communities. the report further called for the european commission to take into account the use of this technology when assessing farmers’ eligibility for greening payments in cap – however, it did not take into account the fact that the vast majority of small, family-run farms would not be able to afford this. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which had as its overall aim the increased use of robotics and gps driven machinery in agriculture, having the overall effect of taking farmers off the land. as an mep from a vastly rural constituency, i oppose this move to take farmers off the land, it having an overall effect of decreasing jobs and removing the beating pulse of rural communities. the report further called for the european commission to take into account the use of this technology when assessing farmers’ eligibility for greening payments in cap – however, it did not take into account the fact that the vast majority of small, family-run farms would not be able to afford this. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which highlights the importance of innovation to sustainable agricultural production and to improving the economic prospects of producers. it emphasises that economic development and sustainable production are not mutually exclusive and that innovation and research and development have a major role to play in fulfilling both objectives. the report points out that small and medium-sized family farms are an integral part of european agriculture and that it is essential that the benefits of advanced production techniques reach them too. the same applies for producers in disadvantaged regions such as mountainous and outermost regions. the report points to examples of where innovation can be applied to agriculture including ict-based management systems and sensor technology. the need to facilitate the access of farmers to investment financing is also highlighted.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because i disagree with this approach. i believe that the current agricultural crisis is very closely related with an environmental, social and economic crisis, with a globalised production-consumption system and unequal distribution of resources in the eu and around the world
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report for a number of reasons. firstly, the report aims to emphasise the pivotal importance of innovation for sustainable food production in the context of increasing environmental concerns. at the same time, innovation should be an integral part of the efforts to ensure a sustainable economic prosperity in a thriving european rural community. making better use of innovative power ensures agriculture can be part of the solution to a number of economic and environmental challenges, especially considering the depopulation of rural areas in more recent times. by singling out the most topical issues such as precision farming, climate smart farming and making better use of the power of nature by combating plant diseases with insects, the report shows how we can produce more products in a better, more sustainable way while lowering our impact on the environment. a main concern of the report is that the potential of innovation in agriculture has not been fully recognised nor is the european regulatory framework fit to keep pace with rapid advancements. key challenges have to be addressed in order to accelerate and stimulate innovation and entrepreneurship in agriculture, something that is needed considering the current market volatility and global competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it recognises the importance of small and medium-sized family farms within the eu and emphasises the importance of sustainable agricultural production.
in writing. – i voted against this report which had as its overall aim the increased use of robotics and gps driven machinery in agriculture, having the overall effect of taking farmers off the land. as an mep from a vastly rural constituency, i oppose this move to take farmers off the land, it having an overall effect of decreasing jobs and removing the beating pulse of rural communities. the report further called for the commission to take into account the use of this technology when assessing farmers’ eligibility for greening payments in cap – however, it did not take into account the fact that the vast majority of small, family-run farms would not be able to afford this. for these reasons, i voted against.
mr president, i have listened to this debate from the outset. naturally it is a very controversial topic and, as a result, the debate was somewhat controversial too. but, at the same time, i think that credit must be given to the commission for coming to terms with this very, very difficult and challenging issue and also for giving leadership when leadership is actually minimal in many instances. the idea of a new partnership agreement with africa make sense, using trade and development policies as leverage and, of course, ensuring that aid goes to those who need it most, and also bringing order to chaos and having legal rather than illegal immigrants. all that is necessary. people might not like it, but i think it is necessary, as is, in particular, the emphasis that this is a global problem which, like cop 21, europe cannot solve on its own. it can give leadership and hopefully, as was the case with cop 21, we can get a global agreement that will deal with the situation in the long term and, hopefully, end the migratory flows, especially for those who have to flee.
madam president, i think we are in agreement that there is always a need for upskilling and adjustment of workers skills in line with the advancement and emergence of new technologies. but we cannot use the skills agenda to simply do the bidding of private interests. dressing up insecure, precarious working conditions as flexibility cannot be tolerated; equally, internships and apprenticeships must offer quality training and remuneration, not exploitation. simply bending education systems to the will of private industry interests is not to the benefit of society. the best way to help people adapt to changing circumstances is to educate them in a holistic manner. learning should be a lifelong process, but one of self-improvement that leads to development of critical thinkers. this not only benefits the economy, but society as a whole.
mr president, i should like to thank the commissioner for her announcement today. we look forward to the details of it when they are published. as has been said by the previous speaker – and i want to make the same point – 20% of our young people in europe are unemployed, 40% of our employers have difficulty in finding those with relevant skills, and we also have long-term unemployed who do not have relevant skills. it was the same story 20 years ago in the mid-1990s, when 15% of our young people were unemployed and they did not have the relevant skills. it is the same story, but it is something that we really need to address. now we have an agenda focused on it, looking at our education and training sector, which is so important. we need to involve industry and employers in our education schemes. it is not enough for them to give their opinions and to complain that they do not have the relevant skills. they need to be involved directly in apprenticeship models and in funding apprenticeship models as well, because it is in their own interest to ensure that they work to develop employees who have the relevant skills. i think that is very important. i welcome and am delighted to hear that you underlined the eur 27 billion funding that is available under the european social fund to support such skills development. i hope all the member states will work and will take up that offer and develop the relevant training programmes for the necessary skills. of course, quality and measurement of that quality of education is very important. you mentioned that 70 million europeans do not have the necessary reading, writing and numeracy skills – the three rs. this is a matter of primary education skills, which is a matter for member states, but it is something that needs to be taken seriously if we are to advance at all in the new type of economy that is demanded, particularly as we face the global challenges and the need to equip our workforce.
the president, one year after the efsi investment plan, we are here to hear the laws being reviewed. this is a major plan, of course, which was to be thwarted by the european union. it's not clear, but it's already hard, and there's a plan in the works. the efsi was designed to create real investment, especially in countries without the need for a stronger economy. the efsi was designed to invest in research, innovation, sustainable industries, social finance, smes, and trade partnerships; it is also known as the 'greece-wide' programme. the efsi is financed by the european regional development fund (erdf). the eib loans are also subject to a number of conditions. the eu is the largest investor in smes in europe. eur 2 billion was invested and eur 3.5 billion spent here. how many posts have you created? what countries have benefited from them? what in the world is a girl going to do with the hymn? in addition, in the efsi operations approved so far, around 85% of total investment has come from private and public investors outside the eib group. achir aba liom: what is the extent of the private infestation involved? what is meant by the public hype? what is the cost of local investment and investment by regional and local authorities? under the irish government, eur 200 million has already been invested in uisce éireann, and they are in the process of selling it to the public; a canine operator is already selling it to the public. the mff should be amended to include the efsi in the 2018 budget. the financial and financial support from the eu is being reduced and more and more people are being encouraged to take part. (aontaíonn an cainteoir freagra a thabhairt ar cheist to the "charta gorm" (riail 162(8) of the na rialacha nós imeachta).) the following is the text of the decision:
answer the question on the red card. i'm not sure i'm ready to work in a country like this. perhaps the plan is working in other countries that have more money in their pockets and private investment is going on. i'm not sure i'm ready to do that. there is no structure that allows us to do that. there is clearly a need for money to be made from private investment rather than public investment. i'm not sure i'm going to work on it. caithfear face real to thabhairt air seo chun an geilleagar to chur i gceart.
thank you for the point. as you know, i came into the chamber during the debate. i tried to be flexible and explained to colleagues that there were over 20 people wanting catch-the-eye, so please make your contributions in writing, and i am conscious of giving new voices to the debate for the lots of colleagues who have been in the chamber. i hope you will accept that i am trying to be fair and flexible and that i do have to stop the debate at 12.00. yes, colleagues ran over their speaking time and i tried to control that. so, with apologies to those who have not spoken, i hope you will respect my attempts to be fair. i know, mr jakovčić, that the alde group have not spoken in catch—the—eye, but you did get a blue card and you were the only colleague looking. i hope you understand. thank you for your understanding. i do accept and take your points on board. commissioner, i would like if i may to invite you to respond to the debate and, if i may say, from the point of view of communication, perhaps parliament and the commission have work to do in the member states.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by marielle de sarnez, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to tunisia (com(2016)0067 – c8—0032/2016 – 2016/0039(cod)) (a8—0187/2016).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. (the sitting was suspended for a few moments) written statements (rule 162)
in writing. – i welcomed the vote in parliament to establish a committee of inquiry into the panama papers revelations. the committee will comprise 65 members of the european parliament and will have 12 months to report. the panama papers revelations released by the international consortium of investigative journalists caused shockwaves around the world, including resignations from office by political figures implicated in the scandal. the panama papers – 11.5 million leaked files from the panama-based law firm mossack fonseca – have caused outrage around the world as the public have become aware of the extent of tax-dodging, money laundering and general criminality by the world’s wealthiest corporations and individuals, using offshore tax havens. this committee of inquiry will investigate possible contraventions and maladministration in the application of the law on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. a number of irish companies, business people, property developers and other individuals have been implicated in this scandal. it is vital that this committee has sufficient powers of inquiry to investigate the panama papers scandal effectively in order to identify the loopholes that need to be closed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to set up a committee of inquiry into the panama papers. this committee will investigate breaches and maladministration of eu directives and regulations related to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. in the light of the revelations made by the panama papers and the massive public outcry against the offshore world, parliament’s political groups have decided to set up a committee. i will represent sinn féin and my european political group, gue/ngl, on this committee.
in writing. ‒ it is important that within the remit of this committee we have a fair, strong and balanced report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against because this inquiry is essential.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of setting up committee of inquiry into the ‘panama papers’ revelations concerning detailed information on offshore companies and their ultimate beneficiaries in a vote on wednesday. the committee of inquiry will investigate alleged contraventions and maladministration in the application of european union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion, its powers, numerical strength and term of office. this committee will have 65 members and twelve months to present its report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this committee as it benefits transparency within the eu.
in writing. – i welcomed the vote in parliament to establish a committee of inquiry into the panama papers revelations. the committee will comprise 65 members of the european parliament and will have 12 months to report. the panama papers revelations released by the international consortium of investigative journalists caused shockwaves around the world, including resignations from office by political figures implicated in the scandal. the panama papers – 11.5 million leaked files from the panama-based law firm mossack fonseca – have caused outrage around the world as the public have become aware of the extent of tax-dodging, money laundering and general criminality by the world’s wealthiest corporations and individuals, using offshore tax havens. this committee of inquiry will investigate possible contraventions and maladministration in the application of the law on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. a number of irish companies, business people, property developers and other individuals have been implicated in this scandal. it is vital that this committee has sufficient powers of inquiry to investigate the panama papers scandal effectively in order to identify the loopholes that need to be closed.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on short-stay visa waivers with palau, although it will not apply to ireland since ireland does not participate in the schengen acquis. for other eu countries, this vote means that citizens from palau and the eu will have a maximum period of 90 days for visa-free travel when visiting the territory of the other party.
in writing. ‒ after the adoption of the regulation on 20 may 2014, the council adopted, on 9 october 2014, a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations with a view to the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of palau. negotiations commenced on 17 december 2014 and ended on 27 may 2015 (palau) and10 june 2015 (union). the agreement was signed on 7 december 2015 in brussels. since that date, the agreement has applied provisionally, pending approval by the european parliament. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i, along with my group alde, supported the agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas between the european union and the republic of palau. this is politically significant in the context of the cotonou agreement – and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa-waiver agreement will simplify travel for business people on both sides, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. palau’s economy is based primarily on the service sector, which accounts for 86% of gdp, with a booming tourism sector, thanks also to the increase in the number of flights serving the island. palau has one of the highest standards of living of the pacific. relations with the eu have strengthened since the admission in 2000 of palau as an acp country. while investment and trade with palau are currently unstable and low in terms of value and in relative terms, they have strong potential for development which could benefit european investors and businesses.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it expands the relationship between the eu and the republic of palau. it will also greatly benefit eu citizens traveling to the country as they can avail of visa-free travel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of visa-free travel between the eu and the republic of palau for short periods of 90 days for travel purposes except for carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of palau when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tonga when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on short stay visa waivers with tonga, although it will not apply to ireland since ireland does not participate in the schengen acquis. for other eu countries, this vote means that citizens from tonga and the eu will have a maximum period of 90 days for visa-free travel when visiting the territory of the other party.
in writing. ‒ after the adoption of the regulation on 20 may 2014, the council adopted, on 9 october 2014, a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations with a view to the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between the european union and the kingdom of tonga. negotiations commenced on 19 november 2014 and ended on 29may 2015 (tonga) and 10 june 2015 (union). the agreement was signed on 20 november 2015 in brussels. since that date, the agreement has applied provisionally, pending approval by the european parliament. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tonga when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement between the eu and kingdom of tonga. firstly, the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tonga when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity. this will allow for greater access and integration between the two blocks in terms of tourism and investment. tonga’s economy is based essentially on agriculture and fisheries, accounting for 20% of gdp, and services, representing 60% of gdp. the main products exported from this country are unprocessed agricultural products such as palm oil and sugar, and the main products imported are boats and ships, with a trade surplus for the pacific. while eu trade relations with tonga are relatively insignificant, they have strong potential for development especially in the areas already mentioned. on a political note, this agreement will allow the eu to intensify its partnership, focusing on aspects such as abolition of the death penalty, combating violence against women and gender equality.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement as it enables both eu citizens and citizens of the kingdom of tonga to experience the culture of both parties more easily.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of visa free travel between the eu and tonga for short periods of 90 days for travel purposes except for carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this agreement which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of tonga when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. – i abstained on this report, which is a proposal to waive visa requirements for all eu and colombian citizens for a 90 day period. however, i have concerns in relation to the free trade agreement and the current colombian government’s standards in relation to human rights. i am also not satisfied that the colombia government is doing enough to tackle and dismantle the paramilitaries and to prosecute those that finance and support them. without criminal records or prosecutions, people who have committed or helped facilitate human rights violations, political assassinations, and other illegal acts such as land grabbing could freely enter the eu. i therefore abstained on this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on short stay visa waivers with columbia, although it will not apply to ireland since ireland does not participate in the schengen acquis. for other eu countries, this vote means that citizens from colombia and the eu will have a maximum period of 90 days for visa-free travel when visiting the territory of the other party.
in writing. ‒ given the generally favourable assessment of the situation regarding colombia, the council adopted on 19 may 2015 a decision authorising the commission to open negotiations with a view to the conclusion of the bilateral agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia. the negotiations were held on 20 may 2015 and the agreement was initialled by the chief negotiators on 9 june 2015. an official ceremony was held on the occasion of the eu-celac summit on 10 june 2015. the agreement was signed on 2 december 2015 in brussels. since that date, the agreement has applied provisionally, pending approval by the european parliament. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of colombia when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ this agreement on the waiver of short-stay visas marks a deepening of relations between the eu and colombia and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. colombia is the eu’s fourth most important economic partner in the region, with a trade volume of eur 11 884 billion. the eu is colombia’s second trade partner. external trade represents around 20% of gdp. the visa waiver will simplify conditions for travel by businesspeople, strengthen economic links among businesses and facilitate investments. colombia is experiencing strong growth (+ 20% growth between 2009 and 2013 and + 4% in 2014) owing to the scale of its natural and agricultural resources and the development of mining and hydrocarbon sectors. in this context, this agreement will make it possible to step up relations between the two parties and to impart fresh impetus to trade. in addition, the number of colombian tourists in the eu has increased in the past years (increase of 5% annually). visa liberalisation is likely to further increase tourist flows between the two, as well as investment in tourism.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement as it supports the good relations between the eu and colombia while also benefitting eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of visa free travel between the eu and colombia for short periods of 90 days for travel purposes except for carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. – this report had a particularly regressive and unconstructive agenda. its aim was to increase developing countries dependence on it multinationals by expanding the information technology products agreement (ita) ita is a trade agreement which primarily profitable large companies who can now buy and sell these products without any tariffs. ita signatories often argue that the agreement is very good for developing countries because it will increase their trade and therefore their gdp. in reality, not many developing countries are signatories to the agreement. with every expansion of the agreement it will be harder for them not to join the agreement as the agreement increases their dependency. moreover, when tariffs are eliminated, developing countries will also lose a significant amount income out of duties that they would normally receive from their exports. therefore, this is an agreement that will not help developing countries develop; it will only help multinationals trading in technology (related) products. it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the information technology agreement, which is a trade agreement focusing only on technology products. the expansion would see more technology products benefit from the elimination of tariff barriers. i voted against, because this agreement is mostly profitable for large companies. the expansion will also make it more difficult for developing countries not to join, pushing dependency on products from these multinationals. these countries will lost out on a lot of income from duties they normally get from these exports. for this unequal benefit, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the ita requires that each participant eliminates and binds customs duties at zero on a most favoured nation basis for all information technology (it) products covered. the ita covers about 200 tariff lines, including computers, telephones, but also inputs, components and machinery for the production of it goods. the duty free treatment given by the ita participants has played an important role in the enormous development and expansion of trade that the it sector has experienced over the close to 20 years of application of the ita. trade in the sector has quadrupled. however, during this time span technological progress has changed the it sector beyond recognition, while the coverage of the ita remained the same.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as this agreement is by no way addressing the environment concerns of the proliferation of devices and the need to recycle.
in writing. ‒ i supported the above agreement as it will lead to lower prices for consumers, but also for producers who depend on imported components. the ita requires that each participant eliminates and binds customs duties at zero on a most favoured nation basis for all information technology (it) products covered. the ita covers about 200 tariff lines, including computers, telephones, but also inputs, components and machinery for the production of it goods. some sectors will however also experience increased competition. it is therefore good to see that the eu negotiated longer staging for some products that were considered to be sensitive, while the majority of the non-sensitive tariffs will be eliminated at the entry into force of the agreement. as well as this the ita agreement has huge potential to create jobs and boost gdp growth.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it will benefit trade within the eu by minimising tariffs within a vastly expanding industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report that seeks the eventual phasing out of tariffs on it products.
in writing. – this report had a particularly regressive and unconstructive agenda. its aim was to increase developing countries dependence on it multinationals by expanding the information technology products agreement (ita). ita is a trade agreement which primarily profitable large companies who can now buy and sell these products without any tariffs. ita signatories often argue that the agreement is very good for developing countries because it will increase their trade and therefore their gdp. in reality, not many developing countries are signatories to the agreement. with every expansion of the agreement it will be harder for them not to join the agreement as the agreement increases their dependency. moreover, when tariffs will be eliminated, developing countries will also lose a significant amount income out of duties that they would normally receive from their exports. therefore, this is an agreement that will not help developing countries develop, it will only help multinationals trading in technology (related) products. it was for these reasons that i voted against this report.
in writing. – i shadowed this report and i was pleased with the direction of the report. the report was concerned with subjecting a new psychoactive substance to control measures. the report further invited member states to subject the substance in question to control measures provided by their own legislation by virtue of their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. most member states have already done so. as a member of the civil liberties, justice and home affairs committee, i have followed legislation on these substances very carefully. their availability is a cause of great concern and the effect some of these substances have on users is horrific. in relation to this particular substance, more than a 130 deaths have been associated with a-pvp and non-lethal side effects include cardiotoxicity, violent behaviour and displays of psychotic behaviour. sinn féin have been at the forefront of calling on member states to legislate as efficiently as possible to prevent these substances from gaining a foothold in the illicit market.
in writing. ‒ the report was concerned with subjecting a new psychoactive substance to control measures. the report further invited member states to subject the substance in question to control measures provided by their own legislation by virtue of their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. most member states have already done so. i have followed legislation on these substances very carefully. their availability is a cause of great concern and the effect some of these substances have on users is horrific. in relation to this particular substance, more than a 130 deaths have been associated with a-pvp and non-lethal side effects include cardiotoxicity, violent behaviour and displays of psychotic behaviour. sinn féin have been at the forefront of calling on member states to legislate as efficiently as possible to prevent these substances from gaining a foothold in the illicit market.
in writing. ‒ alpha-pvp is a potent psychostimulant. the substance, which has been detected in all 28 member states as well as in turkey and norway, is mainly imported into the eu drug market from china and then distributed across europe. there have been a total of 115 deaths and 191 acute intoxications registered in eight member states reported where α-pvp was detected. there is no available information or published studies assessing in a comprehensive way the health risks associated with α-pvp, namely chronic and acute toxicity, but observations in animals suggest similar effects with those observed with other stimulants.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because the prohibition path does not work.
in writing. ‒ i believe that the new psychoactive substance 1-phenyl-2-(1-pyrrolidin-1-yl) pentan-1-one (α-pyrrolidinovalerophenone, α-pvp) should be subject to control measures. despite the limited scientific evidence available on α-pvp, the evidence and information on the health risks that the substance poses, as documented in its detection in fatalities and acute intoxications, provides sufficient ground for subjecting α-pvp to control measures across the union. i believe that it is in the interest of the citizens of the european union to subject this substance to control measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it raises safety levels amongst eu member states and brings about harmonised control measures.
in writing. – i shadowed this report and i was pleased with the direction of the report. the report was concerned with subjecting a new psychoactive substance to control measures. the report further invited member states to subject the substance in question to control measures provided by their own legislation by virtue of their obligations under the 1971 united nations convention on psychotropic substances. most member states have already done so. as a member of the civil liberties, justice and home affairs committee, i have followed legislation on these substances very carefully. their availability is a cause of great concern and the effect some of these substances have on users is horrific. in relation to this particular substance, more than a 130 deaths have been associated with a-pvp and non-lethal side effects include cardiotoxicity, violent behaviour and displays of psychotic behaviour. sinn féin have been at the forefront of calling on member states to legislate as efficiently as possible to prevent these substances from gaining a foothold in the illicit market.
in writing. – this was a single vote on an interim report calling for dialogue between this eu institutions to coordinate a compensation scheme for victims of hazardous and noxious substance spilling at sea. it seeks to protect coastal communities and fishing communities beyond the liability limits of the ship owner which is an important development. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this was a single vote on an interim report calling for dialogue between this eu institutions to coordinate a compensation scheme for victims of hazardous and noxious substance spilling at sea. it seeks to protect coastal communities and fishing communities beyond the liability limits of the ship owner which is an important development. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the significant share hns cargo represents in maritime freight transport, the global nature of the shipping business, as well as the cross-boundary impact accidents involving hns cargo are likely to have, i believe it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a homogenous liability regime applicable to environmental damage arising from the carriage of hns at sea, which can only be achieved if parliament’s recommendations are duly considered by the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it is positive for public health.
in writing. ‒ this interim resolution ensures that a clear obligation is imposed on member states to take all necessary steps to achieve a concrete result, namely to ratify or accede to the 2010 hns convention within a reasonable timeframe, which should be no longer than two years. it will also ensure that the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of common union rules will not be adversely affected by the international commitments undertaken by the ratification of or accession to the 2010 hns convention. further, i also support the provision which advocates the removal of the permanent co-existence of two maritime liability regimes – a union-based one and an international one in favour of a single coherent regime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no objections to it.
in writing. – it seeks to protect coastal communities and fishing communities beyond the liability limits of the ship owner, which is an important development. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – this was a single vote on an interim report calling for dialogue between this eu institutions to coordinate a compensation scheme for victims of hazardous and noxious substance spilling at sea. it seeks to protect coastal communities and fishing communities beyond the liability limits of the ship owner which is an important development. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this was a single vote on an interim report calling for dialogue between this eu institutions to coordinate a compensation scheme for victims of hazardous and noxious substance spilling at sea. it seeks to protect coastal communities and fishing communities beyond the liability limits of the ship owner which is an important development. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ in view of the significant share hns cargo represents in maritime freight transport, the global nature of the shipping business, as well as the cross-boundary impact accidents involving hns cargo are likely to have, i believe it is in the interest of the union as a whole to have a homogenous liability regime applicable to environmental damage arising from the carriage of hns at sea, which can only be achieved if parliament’s recommendations are duly considered by the council and the commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it is positive for public health.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this interim resolution as i believe it will ensure that the risk is diminished of creating and consolidating a competitive disadvantage for the states that are ready to accede to the 2010 hns convention, compared to those who might wish to delay this process and continue to be bound by the environmental liability directive only. thus, the uniformity, integrity and effectiveness of common union rules will not be adversely affected by the international commitments undertaken by the ratification of or accession to the 2010 hns convention in accordance with the settled case law of the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no objections to its final edition.
in writing. – this was a single vote on an interim report calling for dialogue between this eu institutions to coordinate a compensation scheme for victims of hazardous and noxious substance spilling at sea. it seeks to protect coastal communities and fishing communities beyond the liability limits of the ship owner which is an important development. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – this report was a technical acknowledgment of croatia’s accession to the eu. i abstained on this voted as i have concerns regarding the agreement between the eu and the philippines. however, i am in favour of the full accession of croatia to the eu, so therefore, with these concerns in mind, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ this report was a technical acknowledgement of croatia’s accession to the eu. i abstained on this voted as i have concerns regarding the agreement between the eu and the philippines. however, i am in favour of the full accession of croatia to the eu, so therefore, with these concerns in mind, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ under this proposal, the council is called upon to adopt a decision aiming to approve the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union on behalf of the european union and its member states. the proposed protocol incorporates croatia as contracting party to the agreement and commits the eu to providing the authentic version of the agreement in the croatian language.
in writing. ‒ i abstained. no opinion.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation on the eu-philippines framework agreement on partnership and cooperation in order to take account of the accession of croatia into the european union. i already supported the parliament’s non-legislative resolution which we voted on earlier today as well as the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the eu and the philippines where we have also voted earlier today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion as it aids the incorporation of croatia within the eu as a full member of the community.
in writing. – this report was a technical acknowledgment of croatia’s accession to the eu. i abstained on this vote as i have concerns regarding the agreement between the eu and the philippines. however, i am in favour of the full accession of croatia to the eu, so therefore, with these concerns in mind, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. – this was a consent vote on the partnership and cooperation framework agreement which provides an overarching strategic political framework for strengthening philippines -eu bilateral cooperation and a legal framework for further engagement between the eu and the philippines across a broad range of areas, including political dialogue, trade, energy, transport, investment, human rights, education, science and technology, justice, asylum and migration. it also includes areas of current interest such as the mindanao peace process and disaster risk management. negotiations with the philippines began in 2009 and were concluded in 2010 and the agreement was signed in july 2012. one of the aims of the framework agreement is also to constitute the political framework for further negotiations on the eu free trade agreement with the philippines. i have a number of concerns regarding free trade agreements, however, this is not a fta and so therefore, i abstained on the final vote, as this framework agreement has positive aspects in the area of human rights, education, culture and health issues, such as sanitary and phytosanitary issues also related to animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ this was a consent vote on the partnership and cooperation framework agreement which provides an overarching strategic political framework for strengthening philippines -eu bilateral cooperation and a legal framework for further engagement between the eu and the philippines across a broad range of areas, including political dialogue, trade, energy, transport, investment, human rights, education, science and technology, justice, asylum and migration. it also includes areas of current interest such as the mindanao peace process and disaster risk management. negotiations with the philippines began in 2009 and were concluded in 2010 and the agreement was signed in july 2012. one of the aims of the framework agreement is also to constitute the political framework for further negotiations on the eu free trade agreement with the philippines. i have a number of concerns regarding free trade agreements, however, this is not a fta and so therefore, i abstained on the final vote, as this framework agreement has positive aspects in the area of human rights, education, culture and health issues, such as sanitary and phytosanitary issues also related to animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ under this proposal, the council is called upon to adopt a decision aiming to approve the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union on behalf of the european union and its member states. the proposed protocol incorporates croatia as contracting party to the agreement and commits the eu to providing the authentic version of the agreement in the croatian language.
in writing. ‒ i abstained. no opinion.
in writing. ‒ i supported this legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european union and its member states in light of the recommendations expressed in the previous motion for a non-legislative resolution. in the previous resolution, it outlined areas where the philippine government achieved progress such as in corruption and labour rights. likewise, the previous resolution outlined areas of concern where the philippine government needs to make progress, e.g. severe human rights violations by the philippine military in the conduct of counter-insurgency measures.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as it strengthens cooperation between the eu and the philippines.
in writing. – this was a consent vote on the partnership and cooperation framework agreement which provides an overarching strategic political framework for strengthening philippines -eu bilateral cooperation and a legal framework for further engagement between the eu and the philippines across a broad range of areas, including political dialogue, trade, energy, transport, investment, human rights, education, science and technology, justice, asylum and migration. it also includes areas of current interest such as the mindanao peace process and disaster risk management. negotiations with the philippines began in 2009 and were concluded in 2010 and the agreement was signed in july 2012. one of the aims of the framework agreement is also to constitute the political framework for further negotiations on the eu free trade agreement with the philippines. i have a number of concerns regarding free trade agreements, however, this is not a fta and so therefore, i abstained on the final vote, as this framework agreement has positive aspects in the area of human rights, education, culture and health issues, such as sanitary and phytosanitary issues also related to animal welfare.
in writing. ‒ under this proposal, the council is called upon to adopt a decision aiming to approve the framework agreement on partnership and cooperation between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the philippines, of the other part, to take account of the accession of croatia to the european union on behalf of the european union and its member states. the proposed protocol incorporates croatia as contracting party to the agreement and commits the eu to providing the authentic version of the agreement in the croatian language.
in writing. ‒ i abstained. no opinion.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which called on the eu to continue providing financial support and capacity-building assistance to the philippines for poverty alleviation and the implementation of policies to tackle climate change. at the same time, i was happy that it called on the philippines to foster further progress in the elimination of corruption and the promotion of human rights. considering the philippines as one of the countries having been granted gsp+ status by the eu, it is essential that the philippines ensure effective implementation of all the core international conventions relating to human and labour rights, the environment and good governance. likewise, i supported the call on the philippines that under the gsp+ beneficiaries they will have to prove that they are implementing their obligations concerning human rights, labour, environmental and governance standards. finally, the resolution did express concern over the continued reports of severe human rights violations by the philippine military in the conduct of counter-insurgency measures. it also stressed that there are growing concerns that isis will win over affiliated groups in south-east asia. it is important that we recognise the problems that face the current philippine government, especially terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it highlights the importance of working closely with the philippines in order to support the country while also benefiting from the exchange of intelligence, research, students and culture.
in writing. ‒ while i agree with the aim to help the tunisian democracy and economy, macro-financial assistance is being linked to imf loans and programmes. more liberalisation and privatisation did not bring improvement but caused growing inequalities and unemployment. therefore i voted against the resolution.
in writing. ‒ tunisia has succeeded in consolidating its democratic transition. it now has a constitution that safeguards rights and freedoms, with a consolidated judicial system and empowered media. it is led by a broad unity government that emerged from free and transparent elections, with an enterprising and modern civil society, and has rightly been rewarded with the nobel peace prize for the tunisian national dialogue quartet. at present, however, tunisia is going through very great difficulties. on a number of occasions it has been the target of terrorist murders and attacks which have hit key sectors of the country’s economy, such as tourism. growth, projected at 3% for 2015, has been revised down to 0.5% for 2016; the unemployment rate is 15% on average, 20% for women and 28.6% for young university graduates. the regional security and political context is extremely volatile, moreover, chiefly because of the border it shares with libya.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as a neoliberal push is on.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. tunisia has been successful in consolidating its democratic transition. the country has created a new constitution safeguarding rights and freedoms and has developed a consolidated judicial system and free media. tunisia has come out of the arab spring most successfully and has taken major steps to build a stable democracy in the region. currently, however, tunisia is going through increasingly greater difficulties. this is mostly due to the series of targeted terrorist attacks hitting one of the country’s key sectors: tourism. due to these attacks, the growth projection for 2016 has been revised from 3% in 2015 to 0.5% in 2016. on 15 may 2014, an initial euro 300 million programme was approved for tunisia to improve public-finance management and operation of the fiscal system, strengthening the social safety net and improve the regulatory framework for trade and investment. in august 2015, the commission has made provisions for a second mfa programme totalling euro 500 million to improve its budgetary position and balance of payments and bring a climate more conducive to investments. i believe it is absolutely necessary to support economic and political stability on the borders of the european union and this can be done by providing macro-financial assistance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal. i had no objections to its final draft.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a medium-term loan of eur 500 million to tunisia to help it cover its residual external needs.
in writing. – i supported much of the content of this resolution which aims to tackle tax avoidance by corporations operating in the european single market. however, i voted against this overall proposal despite many positive aspects as sinn féin is determined to ensure that tax sovereignty remains in the hands of member states. changes to tax law aimed at ending loopholes for tax avoidance should be made by national parliaments working as part of an effective international framework -– which is currently being led by the oecd. many aspects of the report aimed to implement the oecd base erosion and profit shifting (beps) plan, which i supported. i supported amendments criticising the role of so-called knowledge boxes as tax avoidance mechanisms. certain aspects of the commission proposal and parliament resolution go beyond the oecd beps recommendations, including on exit taxation and switchover clauses, which i could not support. while these may be effective mechanisms for combating tax avoidance, our approach is that we want to implement the oecd beps recommendations in member states and eu law where appropriate now – but that we want to continue seeing countries engaging in an international framework as the primary vehicle for combating global tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i supported much of the content of this resolution which aims to tackle tax avoidance by corporations operating in the european single market. however, i voted against this overall proposal despite many positive aspects as sinn féin is determined to ensure that tax sovereignty remains in the hands of member states. changes to tax law aimed at ending loopholes for tax avoidance should be made by national parliaments working as part of an effective international framework -– which is currently being led by the oecd. many aspects of the report aimed to implement the oecd base erosion and profit shifting (beps) plan, which i supported. i supported amendments criticising the role of so-called knowledge boxes as tax avoidance mechanisms. certain aspects of the commission proposal and parliament resolution go beyond the oecd beps recommendations, including on exit taxation and switchover clauses, which i could not support. while these may be effective mechanisms for combating tax avoidance, our approach is that we want to implement the oecd beps recommendations in member states and eu law where appropriate now – but that we want to continue seeing countries engaging in an international framework as the primary vehicle for combating global tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ this was supposed to be a report advocating sound rules to curb tax avoidance practices. instead, it went above and beyond this goal and was used as a way of delving into member states tax sovereignty by the back door. it is clear in the eu treaties that corporate tax rates are decided by member states alone and that should not be changed.
in writing. ‒ i abstained as all our amendments did not pass.
in writing. ‒ i voted against many of the proposals in the report because i believe we are gold plating oecd proposals at eu level. ireland is complying with oecd proposals and that should be our focus at european level. because this report is consultative i.e. we have no legislative role in this some of the proposals have gone way too far. some of those strong statements that i could not support included what they call a switch-over clause where profits can be taxed in a third country or another eu member state under certain conditions. this is a dangerous precedent and is in my view is an attempt to change the treaty through a directive. i abstained on the final vote because there are some positive points here about profit shifting, rules against tax evasion etc. however the rapporteur went too far on a number of proposals and so i could not support the final report. some of the important roll call votes were 65 on the switch-over clause and 72, and you will note i voted against these.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this directive as it had surpassed its original goals. the areas it infringed on should be left up to the member states to decide on.
in writing. ‒ i support efforts to tackle tax avoidance, but i abstained on the final vote, as the report crosses into the area of national tax sovereignty.
in writing. – i supported much of the content of this resolution which aims to tackle tax avoidance by corporations operating in the european single market. however, i voted against this overall proposal despite many positive aspects as sinn féin is determined to ensure that tax sovereignty remains in the hands of member states. changes to tax law aimed at ending loopholes for tax avoidance should be made by national parliaments working as part of an effective international framework -– which is currently being led by the oecd. many aspects of the report aimed to implement the oecd base erosion and profit shifting (beps) plan, which i supported. i supported amendments criticising the role of so-called knowledge boxes as tax avoidance mechanisms. certain aspects of the commission proposal and parliament resolution go beyond the oecd beps recommendations, including on exit taxation and switchover clauses, which i could not support. while these may be effective mechanisms for combating tax avoidance, our approach is that we want to implement the oecd beps recommendations in member states and eu law where appropriate now – but that we want to continue seeing countries engaging in an international framework as the primary vehicle for combating global tax avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was critical of the interrogation techniques used by the cia, on european soil. the resolution was also supported by ngos such as world organisation against torture, amnesty international and human rights watch, and further criticises eu member states that facilitated or supported these actions on their soil. it calls for further transparent investigations and proper judicial punishments.
in writing. ‒ it is highly important that we see increased cooperation and exchange of information between countries’ secret intelligence and security agencies, so we can ensure full democratic scrutiny of those agencies and their activities through appropriate internal, executive, judicial and independent parliamentary oversight.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution which strongly condemned the us-led central intelligence agency (cia) rendition and secret detention programme involving multiple human rights violations, including unlawful and arbitrary detention, abduction, torture and other inhumane or degrading treatment and violation of the non-refoulement principle. in addition, parliament has repeatedly called for full investigations into the involvement of eu member states in the cia’s secret detention and extraordinary rendition programme. a recent study of the cia’s detention and interrogation programme and its use of various forms of torture on detainees between 2001 and 2006 revealed new facts which reinforced allegations that a number of eu member states, their authorities and officials and agents of their security and intelligence services had been complicit in the cia’s secret detention and extraordinary rendition programme. in addition, i was happy that the parliament reiterated its strong condemnation of the use of enhanced interrogation techniques, which are prohibited under international law. finally, i was glad that the resolution did repeat its call on the usa to continue to investigate and prosecute the multiple human rights violations resulting from the cia rendition and secret detention programmes led by the previous us administration and to publish a study on the issue.
in writing. – i voted against this resolution which calls for more market access in space, increased marketing promotion and for more funding eu regarding space developments. the resolution completely fails to critical assess this unnecessary spending, and moreover there are even parts in which they basically say that public spending is necessary to stimulate private sector investments. also, there is nowhere in the resolution a clear distinction between military functionality of the eu space assets, and civilian and peaceful use. because of that, i recommend to vote against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which was on the need to arm space with observational satellites. such satellites would be used to aid weaponry and militaristic practices. the report aims to use the galileo (eu gps satellites) and copernicus (earth observation satellites) programmes for military use and to establish a european framework cooperation for security and defence research on space. it calls for close cooperation between the eu and nato in the area of security and defence, and for the establishment for a european defence union - all of this to be funded through a strategy agreed by the high representative and the commission. as sinn féin is committed to protecting irish neutrality, i voted against this extension to the csdp policy by militarising space.
in writing. ‒ space policy is an essential component of the strategic autonomy which the eu must develop in order to safeguard sensitive technological and industrial capabilities and independent capabilities to carry out assessments. space-based capabilities and services play an important role in the context of european security and defence and eu policies in areas such as external action, border management, maritime security, agriculture, the environment, climate action, energy security, disaster management, humanitarian aid and transport.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this as it has significant economic importance for the eu as well as expanding the cooperation amongst national space agencies within the eu.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution which calls for more market access in space, increased marketing promotion and for more funding eu regarding space developments. the resolution completely fails to critically assess this unnecessary spending, and moreover there are even parts in which they basically say that public spending is necessary to stimulate private sector investments. also, there is nowhere in the resolution a clear distinction between military functionality of the eu space assets, and civilian and peaceful use. because of that, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ we need to see a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy, ensuring in the short, medium and long term europe’s leading position in space technologies and services on global markets, ensuring independent access to space for europe and ensuring a level playing field for the european space industry.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution which encouraged the commission to present a comprehensive, ambitious and forward-looking strategy, ensuring in the short, medium and long term europe’s leading position in space technologies and services on global markets, ensuring independent access to space for europe and ensuring a level playing field for the european space industry. one of the main elements of the strategy should be market uptake of space data, services and applications to maximise the socio-economic benefits of eu space programmes. however, the commission needs to present a proposal for a clear european space industrial policy as part of the upcoming strategy. this will require a broad range of stakeholders involved in implementing eu space policy, particularly the commission, the european gnss agency (gsa), the european space agency (esa), copernicus service providers and encouraged them to further foster their cooperation. however, there are market barriers to growth in this sector. therefore, future space services should be mainly provided by, and procured from, commercial enterprises unless there is a good reason not to do so. thankfully, the resolution called for a mid-term evaluation of the copernicus and galileo regulations and this should be used to ensure a greater involvement of the private sector in the procurement of services.
in writing. – i voted against this resolution which calls for more market access in space, increased marketing promotion and for more funding eu regarding space developments. the resolution completely fails to critical assess this unnecessary spending, and moreover there are even parts in which they basically say that public spending is necessary to stimulate private sector investments. also, there is nowhere in the resolution a clear distinction between military functionality of the eu space assets, and civilian and peaceful use. because of that, i recommend to vote against.
in writing. – i voted against this resolution, which was a blatant attempt to join in foreign interference in venezuela, worsening the situation there and increasing tensions. despite talking about human rights, aid, and helping resolve the political tensions in venezuela, the resolution was clearly biased in favour of the venezuelan opposition, reflecting their demands and claims, while failing to give a balanced view of the situation in venezuela. failing to acknowledge the impact of a fall in oil prices, evidence of economic sabotage, and the effect of a severe drought on venezuela’s hydroelectric sector, the resolution blames the government for the situation in venezuela. the resolution also echoes the opposition call for hundreds of prisoners to be released, included many who were involved in organising violent protests that led to several deaths. because this was a blatant attempt to interfere in the internal politics of venezuela, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution, which was a blatant attempt to join in foreign interference in venezuela, worsening the situation there and increasing tensions. despite talking about human rights, aid, and helping resolve the political tensions in venezuela, the resolution was clearly biased in favour of the venezuelan opposition, reflecting their demands and claims, while failing to give a balanced view of the situation in venezuela. failing to acknowledge the impact of a fall in oil prices, evidence of economic sabotage, and the effect of a severe drought on venezuela’s hydroelectric sector, the resolution blames the government for the situation in venezuela. the resolution also echoes the opposition call for hundreds of prisoners to be released, included many who were involved in organising violent protests that led to several deaths. because this was a blatant attempt to interfere in the internal politics of venezuela, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i think it is highly important for a european parliament delegation to be sent to venezuela and to hold a dialogue with all sectors involved in the conflict as soon as possible.
in writing. ‒ i authored and supported the joint resolution and i was happy that it did acknowledge the seriously deteriorating situation as regards democracy, human rights and the socio-economic situation in venezuela, where the political and social climate is becoming more unstable. i also supported the call on the venezuelan government to respect the rule of law and the principle of the separation of powers. currently, there are around 2 000 people in prison, under house arrest or on probation for political reasons and that the rule of law and the principle of the separation of powers are not duly respected in venezuela. therefore, the venezuelan government needs to adopt a constructive attitude in order to overcome venezuela’s current critical situation. in this regard, the venezuelan authorities need to:- release immediately the political prisoners;- guarantee security and the free exercise of rights for all citizens, in particular human rights defenders, journalists and political activists. in addition, the venezuelan government needs to implement urgent economic reforms in order to find a solution to the economic and energy crises, in particular the shortage of food and medicines. finally, i was happy to support the call on the venezuelan authorities to investigate the tumeremo massacre, in which 28 miners were murdered.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion as it creates a clear path for the eu to follow in relation to the situation.
in writing. – i voted against this resolution, which was a blatant attempt to join in foreign interference in venezuela, worsening the situation there and increasing tensions. despite talking about human rights, aid, and helping resolve the political tensions in venezuela, the resolution was clearly biased in favour of the venezuelan opposition, reflecting their demands and claims, while failing to give a balanced view of the situation in venezuela. failing to acknowledge the impact of a fall in oil prices, evidence of economic sabotage, and the effect of a severe drought on venezuela’s hydroelectric sector, the resolution blames the government for the situation in venezuela. the resolution also echoes the opposition call for hundreds of prisoners to be released, included many who were involved in organising violent protests that led to several deaths. because this was a blatant attempt to interfere in the internal politics of venezuela, i voted against this resolution.
in writing. – this joint motion for resolution condemns the commission for its failure to comply with its obligations in the biocides regulation. it calls on the commission to come forward with the criteria which the commission has already stated that it will do this month. by way of background information, endocrine disrupting chemicals are mostly man-made substances which are found in various products such as pesticides, plastics and other consumer products. they are strongly linked to hormone-related diseases/conditions and cancers such as breast cancer or testicular cancer. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this joint motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ this joint motion for resolution condemns the commission for its failure to comply with its obligations in the biocides regulation. it calls on the commission to come forward with the criteria which the commission has already stated that it will do this month. by way of background information, endocrine disrupting chemicals are mostly man-made substances which are found in various products such as pesticides, plastics and other consumer products. they are strongly linked to hormone-related diseases/conditions and cancers such as breast cancer or testicular cancer. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this joint motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ it is very disappointing to see that the commission is not complying with its obligation to adopt delegated acts pursuant to regulation (eu) no 528/2012.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the resolution on endocrine disruptors. according to regulation (eu) no 528/2012 of the european parliament and of the council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, the commission, no later than 13 december 2013, shall adopt delegated acts specifying scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties of active substances and biocidal products. in a report published by the unep/who, endocrine disrupters (edcs) are considered as a global threat. i along with my colleagues condemned the commission for its failure to comply with its obligation to adopt delegated acts, which are now more than two and a half years overdue. by doing this, the commission has also failed to comply with its institutional obligations as laid down in the treaties themselves, notably in article 266 tfeu. likewise, the ecj declared that the commission breached eu law by failing to act to adopt delegated acts to specify scientific criteria for the determination of endocrine-disrupting properties. this is worrying considering that the proposed scientific criteria were ready in 2013, but remained unpublished as the commission decided to launch an impact assessment instead. i was happy that the resolution called on the commission to comply immediately with its obligations.
in writing. – this joint motion for resolution condemns the commission for its failure to comply with its obligations in the biocides regulation. it calls on the commission to come forward with the criteria which the commission has already stated that it will do this month. by way of background information, endocrine disrupting chemicals are mostly man-made substances which are found in various products such as pesticides, plastics and other consumer products. they are strongly linked to hormone-related diseases/conditions and cancers such as breast cancer or testicular cancer. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this joint motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ i objected to the authorisation of this gmo, because it contains glyphosate-tolerant proteins and this is carcinogenic.
in writing. ‒ i disagreed with this resolution which called on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection, as did the majority of my colleagues. like other recent objections to the placing on the market of gmo products, the problem continues to be that the commission is trying to exceed its implementing powers provided for in the gm regulation 1829/2003 after the member states deliver a non-opinion. earlier this year, the commission attempted to mitigate the rigour of this authorisation system through a proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1829/2003, which would enable member states to opt out from an eu-approved gmo by restricting or prohibiting its use based on a set of legal reasons. in october 2015, the parliament rejected the proposal due to a variety of concerns including the potentially disruptive effects that it might have on the functioning of the internal market. as well as that, i have always been a supporter of environmentally safe farming methods and because of this; i advocate the precautionary principle when it comes to gmo products.
in writing. ‒ i objected to the placing on the market of a genetically modified carnation, as while there is high risk of propagation as different carnation varieties are found everywhere in europe, efsa did not evaluate it. moreover the specific gm variety needs, in order to be ‘in a good shape’ a specific herbicide, which contains as a main substance, sulfonylurea, which is used in antidiabetes drugs.
in writing. ‒ i disagreed with this resolution which called on the commission to withdraw its draft implementing decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection to the placing on the market of a genetically-modified carnation for a number of reasons. firstly, the resolution calls for a withdrawal of this decision because it exceeds the commissions implementing powers and does not sufficiently fulfil the objective of health and environment protection. my main concern is that the possible consequences of intentional or accidental intake of gm carnations by humans and animals have not been taken into consideration. with regards to accidental cultivation, i do not see the precautionary principle taken into account sufficiently. according to the efsa gmo panel, the gm carnation does not show enhanced fitness characteristics except if exposed to the herbicide sulfonylureas. this herbicide is toxic to animals and can have detrimental impacts on the environment, something i believe should not be allowed on the eu market. in addition, the commission attempted to change the procedure for authorisation, which would enable member states to opt out from an eu-approved gmo. i, along with the majority of the parliament rejected the proposal due to a variety of concerns but mainly the potentially disruptive effects that it might have on the functioning of the internal market.
mr president, i think this proposal is pro-citizen and very much pro-single market. it makes absolute sense that we should have standardised forms in a multilingual context, and i welcome this regulation as a practical example of making the european union work for ordinary citizens. as others have said, this is the first phase in terms of birth certificates and marriage certificates, and i think we should encourage the commission and this parliament to be bolder at the next phase, particularly in terms of young people, when it comes to its translation to diplomas and degrees. we know that somewhere between 6% and 8% of european union citizens travel and work in other member states. we have an obligation to make sure that their passage in those countries is made as smooth as possible. certainly for irish people who travel around the european union, that can be difficult in terms of the number of documents that are needed, so having these standardised documents in a multilingual form makes absolute sense. but i do think we need to be bold and we need to be ambitious for the future; i see this as the first step, rather than the last step.
madam president, i am very happy with this resolution, and i am also happy that the rail supply industry has been explicitly recognised in the recent joint warsaw declaration of the friends of industry as a strategic manufacturing sector for the development of europe. whilst i welcome the commission’s fourth rail package, we also need to ensure that the third rail package is fully and properly implemented. furthermore, i am happy to say that studies have shown that rail markets will continue to grow on all continents, and there are therefore great business opportunities to seize for european rail suppliers. however, at the same time, we see that european rail supply companies face a critical challenge to their global market leadership with industrial competition from asia, and especially china, becoming increasingly fierce and problematically unfair. we need to be aware of this and avert the risk of job losses. finally, i want to say that mitigation of climate change and shifting toward sustainable, energy-efficient and clean technological development of the industry will be essential for its growth. i welcome the resolution, greatly highlighting these aspects in line with cop 21.
the uachtaráin, is dóigh liom gur thug na húdair cur síos an-mhaith ar what is ag tarlú sa táidsíceastáin faoi láthair agus in the recent years, especially faoi réim an uachtaráin atá ann anois perhaps go ró-fhada. it is also right to ask them to do so, especially in the case of laws which are designed to prevent the infringement of the law. we're going to use the troid against the sceimhlitheoireachta and the caimiléireacht, and they're going to use the troid to come down on the air freshener. tatar is in jail and august is in the legal department. there are no rules to be brought into the matter and the matter is left to the citizens in general. therefore, we should, as is right for us, ask them to do something about the laws in their country, especially in political prisons and in the law courts.
mr president, i think in some respects it is disappointing that we have to have this resolution. we do have to have it because, any place where there is violation of human rights, then it is only right that the european union should express its advice and its opposition to that type of development. the reason i say it is disappointing is because i was part of the european delegation to vietnam last november. it is a lovely country; we were treated very well; they obviously have a high regard for cooperation with the european union. subsequently we signed the free trade agreement with them. indeed you would think, from observing people as they go around on their little motorbikes, that everything is lovely and happy. they are making great progress, but obviously in the area of human rights a lot more needs to be done. yesterday, we had an asean delegation meeting here, where there were representative from vietnam and the other nine countries involved, and human rights was discussed. it is by continuously raising this issue and maybe having it as a quid pro quo for future cooperation that they will gradually move to do the right thing with regard to respecting human rights, religious leaders, etc.
i support the council’s position and have voted against this amendment, which is a proposal not to support the legislation. i disagree with that as this is a good piece of legislation, which aims to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents, for example, by abolishing the costly and burdensome apostille requirement. it is important to note that it does not affect recognition of the content of public documents in order to preserve the sovereignty of member states, particularly with regard to family law matters, etc. the regulation covers all civil status documents, and certain other documents that are often required by members of the public concerning, for example, residence, nationality and absence of a criminal record. like my colleague mr pospíšil, i am slightly disappointed that diplomas, etc. were not included, and hopefully that can be rectified in due course, but i do welcome multilingual standard forms. tá sé sin fíor go háirithe do mo theanga dhúchais féin, an ghaolainn.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with the simplification of acceptance of certain public documents. by simplifying the procedure, this will facilitate procedures for irish citizens moving between member states. the main ways acceptance is simplified are the exemption from legislation, apostille or similar formalities for a set list of public documents including birth, death, name, marriage, divorce, registered partnership, parenthood, adoption, domicile, nationality, and absence of a criminal record. in theory, persons producing these documents will not have to go through expensive and lengthy procedures legalising or translating these documents any more. for now diplomas, certificates of disabilities and documents related to established businesses have been excluded. as this will not affect national family or administrative law, there are no sovereignty issues and so therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ there was only one amendment to this file, which was an amendment to reject. i voted against that amendment, thus endorsing the agreed text. the file concerns the simplification of acceptance of certain public documents. by this, the file is not about the harmonisation, nor standardisation of these public documents, nor does it oblige member states to accept the content of these public documents. the main way acceptance is simplified is the exemption from legislation, apostille or similar formalities for a set list of public documents including birth, death, name, marriage, divorce, registered partnership, parenthood, adoption, domicile, nationality, and absence of a criminal record. in theory, persons producing these documents will not have to go through expensive and lengthy procedures legalising or translating these documents any more. as this will get rid of a lot of unnecessary bureaucracy for eu citizens, but will not affect national family or administrative law (or raise sovereignty issues), i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this legislation, whose aim is to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents, for example by abolishing the costly and burdensome apostille requirement. it does not affect recognition of the content of public documents in order to preserve the sovereignty of the member states, in particular with regards to family law matters.
in writing. ‒ due to simplification of procedures that will benefit citizens, i decided to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this draft regulation as it aims to promote the free movement of citizens and businesses by simplifying the acceptance of certain public documents in the european union. it also foresees simplification of other formalities related to the cross-border acceptance of public documents, namely of certified copies and certified translations. i do not believe that this regulation would benefit the citizens of the european union due to the numerous concerns regarding safety and security.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with the simplification of acceptance of certain public documents. by simplifying the procedure, this will facilitate procedures for irish citizens moving between member states. the main ways acceptance is simplified are the exemption from legislation, apostille or similar formalities for a set list of public documents including birth, death, name, marriage, divorce, registered partnership, parenthood, adoption, domicile, nationality, and absence of a criminal record. in theory, persons producing these documents will not have to go through expensive and lengthy procedures legalising or translating these documents any more. for now diplomas, certificates of disabilities and documents related to established businesses have been excluded. as this will not affect national family or administrative law, there are no sovereignty issues and so therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – the civil service tribunal was put in place for disputes between eu personnel and the institutions. this report seeks to merge the civil service tribunal with the general court, which will have a number of adverse consequences for applicants, including 1) much longer waiting times, 2) the loss of seven specialised judges, 3) the loss of one appellate stage. this reform seems to have no real substance as the court was first set up in 2005 with the aim of relieving the burden of the general court. it seems that this reform has been a long-laboured compromise due to disagreements over which countries should appoint judges and how the rotation should work. the result is a loss in interest in specialised courts and just an increase in judges to the general court. there is no empirical research to show that this restructuring will improve efficiency or save money. therefore i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which concerned the closure of the specialised civil service tribunal. this court had been the separate specialised court dealing with disputes between eu institutions/offices/agencies, and their employees, since 2005. the abolition, or merger of this court with the general court will have a number of consequences for applicants, 1) much longer waiting times, 2) the loss of seven specialised judges, 3) the loss of one appellate stage for applicants. furthermore, there has been no research or data to show that this restructuring will improve efficiency of save money. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report to increase the number of judges at the general court to 56, so as to allow each member state to nominate two judges each. this increase was subject to the condition that the civil service tribunal, which has seven judges, was to be abolished, and civil service disputes transferred back to the general court. the present regulation is a follow-up to the third regulation reforming the court of justice.
in writing. ‒ the disappearance of such a specialised court is not needed and i do not see the need for the hiring of more judges. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ in the interests of the judicial cohesion of the european court of justice and of the general legal eu acquis, i supported this resolution. the amendments stemming from this resolution will facilitate appropriate transitional arrangements concerning the transfer to the general court of the european union civil service cases which will ease the burden of the ecj’s caseload. this transfer of jurisdiction presupposes, in accordance with article 256(1) tfeu, the dissolution of the european union civil service tribunal (‘civil service tribunal’) which will also increase the coherency on the european legal system as eu civil servants will now have their cases heard at the general court of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it finishes necessary reforms to the ecj.
in writing. – the civil service tribunal was put in place for disputes between eu personnel and the institutions. this report seeks to merge the civil service tribunal with the general court, which will have a number of adverse consequences for applicants, including 1) much longer waiting times, 2) the loss of seven specialised judges, 3) the loss of one appellate stage. this reform seems to have no have no real substance as the court was first set up in 2005 with the aim of relieving the burden of the general court. it seems that this reform has been a long-laboured compromise due to disagreements over which countries should appoint judges and how the rotation should work. the result is a loss in interest in specialised courts and just an increase in judges to the general court. there is no empirical research to show that this restructuring will improve efficiency or save money. therefore i voted against this report.
the president, once again, voted in favour of the report, which i think is very important for citizens. i think it is crucial that, when confronted with eu administrations, citizens have their procedural rights and obligations defined and respected. as was said, in january 2013 we were strongly encouraged that a solution would be found when we adopted a resolution calling for regulation on an open, efficient and independent european union administration. sadly, however, the commission has so far not proposed anything. there is a great need for such legislation: it should be clear to citizens what their legal and administrative rights are, and i believe citizens have the right to expect a high level of efficiency, transparency and responsiveness from eu institutions, bodies and agencies. i think, moreover, that when we as parliamentarians recommend something to the commission, while they have a right of initiative, they should take our proposal on board and respond as quickly as possible.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution which is a proposal for a legal act – a regulation on an open, efficient and independent european administration – which lays down the procedural rules that shall govern the administrative activities of the european union’s administration. the objective of this regulation is to guarantee the right to good administration enshrined in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union by means of an open, efficient and independent administration. the way to do this is by setting up an administrative procedure. the regulation enshrines rights to information, procedural rights against the institutions, duties of the administration to cooperate with requests, duties to state reasons for actions, remedies and notification of acts. this regulation is supposed to be an additional tool for citizens, who until now only have the ombudsman for these matters of redress. i welcome the eu having a system for an administrative procedure, as this will improve the rights of citizens, bring coherence and should lead to more transparency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which was a first reaction to the failure of the commission to come forward with a proposal for transparency of the eu’s administration since parliament called for same in 2013. the regulation enshrines rights to information, procedural rights against the institutions, duties of the administration to cooperate with requests, duties to state reasons for actions, remedies and notification of acts. this regulation is supposed to be an additional tool for citizens, who until now only have the ombudsman for these matters of redress. as i have long campaigned for more transparency within the eu institutions, i was glad to support this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for resolution for an open, efficient and independent european union administration
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour to force the commission to follow parliament’s demands.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, which follows on from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon providing the union with the legal basis for the adoption of an administrative procedure regulation. this provides for the adoption of regulations to assure that, in carrying out their mission, the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the union have the support of an open, efficient and independent european administration. accordingly, i was happy that parliament’s resolution stressed that an efficient union administration is essential for the public interest. the resolution lays down the procedural rules that shall govern the activities of the union’s administration. these rules aim to ensure both open, efficient and independent administration and proper enforcement of the right to good administration.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as i believe it creates a way of ensuring that every person receives their right to have their affairs handled in an impartial, fair, and timely manner by the institutions within the eu.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution, which is a proposal for a legal act – a regulation on an open, efficient and independent european administration – laying down the procedural rules that shall govern the activities of the union’s administration. the objective of the regulation is to guarantee the right to good administration enshrined in article 41 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union by means of an open, efficient and independent administration. the way to do this is by setting up an administrative procedure. the regulation enshrines rights to information, procedural rights vis-à-vis the institutions, the duties of the administration in terms of cooperating with requests, and duties to state reasons for actions, offer remedies and give notification of acts. this regulation is supposed to be an additional tool for citizens, who until now had only the ombudsman for redress on such matters. i welcome the eu having a system for administrative procedure, as this will improve citizens’ rights and promote consistency and should lead to greater transparency.
the president, was at the meeting or voted by the group in the votes cast outside the chamber: it is without ar no 21; read 5. but i know the rights of the unemployed and the voters, and i am fine gael, and i am an unemployed person. there was a chance to talk this morning about the laws on this subject, but i was not able to see the whole thing, so i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it, and i was able to talk about it. therefore, we have every opportunity to give it to anyone who wants to develop it, especially if we want to give it to the people who want to do it. i've seen that report.
in writing. – on the surface this question appeared to be concerned with improving the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry. however, the question fails to deal with the root cause of the problem, which is the continued privatisation agenda of the railway market in eu. the present legal framework prioritises competition and international trade over industrial growth and job creation. moreover, the oral question is just calling for different forums, strategies, groups and networks to be established and fails to propose any concrete measures to improve the preconditions of the industry, other than new discussion clubs and additional layers of bureaucracy. it was for these reasons that i voted against this motion.
in writing. ‒ on the surface this question appeared to be concerned with improving the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry. however, the question fails to deal with the root cause of the problem, which is the continued privatisation agenda of the railway market in eu. the present legal framework prioritises competition and international trade over industrial growth and job creation. moreover, the oral question is just calling for different forums, strategies, groups and networks to be established and fails to propose any concrete measures to improve the preconditions of the industry, other than new discussion clubs and additional layers of bureaucracy. it was for these reasons that i voted against this motion.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution as a whole, and also supported the amendment ‘points out that workers' rights and working conditions are fundamental for the future development of the rail industry’.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as it drives a privatisation agenda.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the resolution on the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry. the european rail supply industry (rsi), which encompasses the manufacture of locomotives and rolling stock as well as track, electrification, signalling and telecommunications equipment, employs 400 000 people directly and is responsible for more than 1 million direct and 1.2 million indirect jobs in the eu. i was pleased that the resolution recognised this as well as the fact that the rsi is a key industry in terms of european jobs in r&d, urging that measures be taken to ensure we maintain a technological and innovative advantage in this sector. i was particularly pleased that it called for european training and for an education strategy bringing together rsi companies, research institutes and the social partners to jointly investigate which skills are needed for a sustainable and innovative rsi so that skills pool will be aligned with growing demand in the sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to strengthen the competitiveness of the industry making it more economically viable.
in writing. – on the surface this question appeared to be concerned with improving the competitiveness of the european rail supply industry. however, the question fails to deal with the root cause of the problem, which is the continued privatisation agenda of the railway market in eu. the present legal framework prioritises competition and international trade over industrial growth and job creation. moreover, the oral question is just calling for different forums, strategies, groups and networks to be established and fails to propose any concrete measures to improve the preconditions of the industry, other than new discussion clubs and additional layers of bureaucracy. it was for these reasons that i voted against this motion.
blue-card question. – actually i thought that mr assis’s speech was very good and balanced and that is why i am asking him a blue-card question. he was reasonable in regard to the disclosure of information in relation to ttip, but he said you have to respect a certain amount of confidentiality. so what actually does he really want in terms of disclosure for us, as members of parliament, for the ngos he mentioned, and for the public in general?
mr president, actually i have rather enjoyed this debate, even though there are not many here, but, in some respects, it is the essence of what we are about. it is about how we, the elected representatives and the commission – called bureaucrats – communicate so that europe can be better for all its citizens. when this parliament was first established, i believe it was called a mickey mouse parliament, and that is why we have the mickey mouse star outside. i am not sure whether that is true or not, but definitely this parliament initially had no powers, but they have evolved over a period of time. the lisbon treaty was very important in that regard – the lisbon treaty that took probably 10 years to negotiate and, of course, in my own country, took two referendums to pass. if it was not passed in our country, it could not come into being because it required unanimity. as a result, there is an onus on us, as legislators because of the powers of codecision, to ensure that the commission, in particular, is held to account. over the years, that unfortunately does not seem to have been the position and as a result, sometimes incorrectly, impressions were given, right across europe through the media, that everything bad was emanating from brussels. now you have a potential brexit which, in many respects, is based on that erroneous assumption, but it was allowed to go unchallenged for years. there was nobody there to put the other side, and parliament, because it lacked power and lacked information, was not in a position to actually put the other side. thankfully, that is now beginning to change, hopefully not too late where the united kingdom is concerned. i particularly welcome the new commission, under president juncker, who have made it very clear that they want to be more responsive, they want to cooperate more and they want to work with parliament. saying it is one thing, doing it is another and, as people have pointed out, especially i think in relation to mercosur – mr assis referred to it and he was right in that regard – it actually took a debate and a vote here in parliament to put a halt to some of the unsavoury aspects of that discussion. i think that is a great example of the need, in the interests of the european union and everybody, for the commission to constantly inform and to constantly consult parliament regarding any international agreements. hopefully that can work out well. ttip has been mentioned, and actually today was probably the first time i heard a balanced account of the need for publicity, but also disclosure and transparency. both sides of the house, especially on the left, did acknowledge that you cannot have negotiations in public. after all, you are negotiating with a third country. you can only disclose what they wish to disclose and of course also – and this is very important – what you might start out with as a negotiating position might finish up entirely different when you actually finish the discussions. what would happen in that regard, if every negotiating position was made public, is that the naysayers would have a field day because they would present that as a de facto position, so you could not really have a discussion at all. you would have no discussions and you would have no negotiations, because nobody would want to negotiate with you if you were going to be publishing everything. so i think we are gradually getting the balance right, and hopefully the commission will do everything they can for more disclosure to inform parliament constantly so that we can work together so that our citizens are informed that we are here for their good, both the commission and parliament. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – that is a very good question and i agree completely. this is the point i was coming to. with twitter, facebook, all the tv channels and radio stations now, there is need for proper information and especially when wrong information is given out, we should insist that the correct information is given. in particular we should anticipate matters by actually feeding people with correct information before others actually give them the wrong information, which does huge damage, both to ttip and many other aspects of the work of the european union.
i asked for a "great card". i'd like to ask you a question. the human rights at issue here are not those which should be included in the rights set out in the regulations of the european union and which are the responsibility of each member state to take into account, but those which are fully applicable to human rights. i don't agree with the laws that are being made and i don't think it's fair that we should be making laws that are being made. what is the difference between human wisdom and foolishness?
the president welcomes the conclusions of this report, particularly in view of the improvements in education and the many ways in which teachers' working conditions have been improved. it is without doubt, one of the most important aspects of the history of the scholars. it is very important to have money available for students to study, but i don't think that students should have to pay for loans to start their professional lives after they finish college. it is necessary to have a better scheme for scholarships and allowances to support students in their studies and in attending a third level. the cost of choir, music, books and other material is part of the cost of education. the registration fee is €3 000 per year, one of the highest in europe. students are encouraged to make their own decisions about how to purchase and how to purchase books on subjects essential to their education. but, it is their responsibility to ensure that access to education is not just for those who have money.
there is no question that there is a controversy about the tuirbíní gaoithe ar fud in héireann. there are questions about the health of the country, about the health of the people, about the progress of the country. while sinn féin fully supports the use of clean energy sources and will rely on reliable fuel, we must ensure that development is carried out by the energy industry, such as wind farms, in partnership with local communities. the commission shall be assisted by a committee composed of representatives of the member states and of the commission. in such cases, it is important to ensure that the measures taken are proportionate to the objective pursued, for example when the council of county councils has decided to grant planning permission to the local authority to allow the designated areas to be designated as special areas of conservation. i don't know what it's like in any other place. should ownership be shared, at least by local laws, agus gurb is an aged local village that has been granted a licence and is therefore eligible for development. and more importantly, go have an chumhacht ag an bpobal to be bainteach le haon phleanáil.
mr president, having attended cop 21 on behalf of parliament, i am very pleased with the way matters are progressing and indeed with the leadership shown, in particular by commissioner arias cañete since he took office. i think we are moving in a very practical and sensible manner and at the same time – as mr marias mentioned a few minutes ago – we can do so in an environmentally friendly way, meet our targets and, at the same time, not damage our economy. yesterday i had a meeting with our own new minister, minister naughten. i think he has a very firm grasp of what we need to do in ireland, and i am quite sure the same applies to all other member states. on tuesday night here i was at a meeting where we were discussing decarbonising the transport sector, so the market signals are quite clear. i think the industry is moving in the right direction and therefore what we have to do is to guide them along, make sure the targets are set, that there is no escape for anybody, and we can meet the cop 21 targets which we set out to do. i think the commission is moving in the right direction and i support it in that.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which concerned appointments to a special committee of inquiry into the panama papers. my colleague matt carthy has been nominated to represent the gue/ngl european political grouping on this committee. this committee of inquiry will investigate possible contraventions and maladministration in the application of the law on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. a number of irish companies, business people, property developers and other individuals have been implicated in this scandal. it is vital that this committee has sufficient powers of inquiry to investigate the panama papers scandal effectively in order to identify the loopholes that need to be closed. the committee will have 12 months to report back.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these appointments to the european parliament’s committee of inquiry into the revelations made in the panama papers leak by a whistle-blower. i am one of four gue/ngl meps who have been appointed to the inquiry. this committee of inquiry will investigate possible contraventions and maladministration in the application of the law on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. it will begin its work in september and have a year to report. the panama papers revelations released by the international consortium of investigative journalists caused shockwaves around the world, including resignations from office by political figures implicated in the scandal. i take my appointment to this inquiry very seriously and hope we can shine a light into the secret world of tax-dodging, money laundering and criminality through the use of offshore tax havens. most importantly, we need to identify the legal loopholes that allow this to happen in order to propose international reforms to end this activity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the establishment of this committee.
in writing. ‒ i supported the appointments put forward by all political groups to the new committee of inquiry into the alleged maladministration in the application of union law in relation to money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. it is vital that elected representatives have an opportunity to evaluate the tax practices of large multinationals and wealthy individuals to see if they paid the appropriate amount of tax on their earnings within the eu. it is also of vital importance to the integrity of the eu institutions that an investigation into the application of european union law by the commission and member states is undertaken. citizens need assurances that tax administrations correctly apply tax levels. likewise, if tax rates are not being correctly applied this needs to be reviewed as tax not collected by administrations is funding lost for vital public services in local communities.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which concerned appointments to a special committee of inquiry into the panama papers. my colleague matt carthy has been nominated to represent the gue/ngl european political grouping on this committee. this committee of inquiry will investigate possible contraventions and maladministration in the application of the law on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion. a number of irish companies, business people, property developers and other individuals have been implicated in this scandal. it is vital that this committee has sufficient powers of inquiry to investigate the panama papers scandal effectively in order to identify the loopholes that need to be closed. this committee will have 12 months to report back.
in writing. – i abstained on this vote which was on a framework agreement between the eu and lebanon through the euro-mediterranean partnership (euromed). this agreement promotes economic integration and democratic reform across 16 countries to the eu’s south. it seeks greater integration within the region and is linked to the european neighbourhood policy which is aimed at offering its neighbours a privileged relationship. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. as this agreement is foreseen to lead to future trade agreements, i was against it in principle. however, as the lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this vote which was on a framework agreement between the eu and lebanon through the euro-mediterranean partnership (euromed). this agreement promotes economic integration and democratic reform across 16 countries to the eu’s south. it seeks greater integration within the region and is linked to the european neighbourhood policy which is aimed at offering its neighbours a privileged relationship. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. as this agreement is foreseen to lead to future trade agreements, i was against it in principle. however, as the lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this protocol, which contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in european union programmes.
in writing. ‒ abstained. no opinion.
in writing. ‒ i supported this framework agreement between the eu and the republic of lebanon. this will now allow the republic of lebanon to participate in certain european union programmes after the commission determines the specific terms and conditions. such actions are vital for economic, financial and technical cooperation, while it allows the republic of lebanon to receive assistance, in particular financial assistance, from the european union pursuant to those programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as i had no objections to its final terms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that lays down a framework and rules for the republic of lebanon and its participation in certain eu programmes.
in writing. – i abstained on this vote which was on a framework agreement between the eu and lebanon through the euro-mediterranean partnership (euromed). this agreement promotes economic integration and democratic reform across 16 countries to the eu’s south. it seeks greater integration within the region and is linked to the european neighbourhood policy which is aimed at offering its neighbours a privileged relationship. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. as this agreement is foreseen to lead to future trade agreements, i was against it in principle. however, as the lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. – similar to the previous framework vote, this vote concerned greater economic integration between the eu and lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the european neighbourhood policy is aimed at offering its neighbours a privileged relationship. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. this vote was on a legal text to add the names of those countries that joined the eu in the 2004 enlargement to the official documents. as this agreement is foreseen to lead to future trade agreements, i was against it in principle. however, as the lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ similar to the previous framework vote, this vote concerned greater economic integration between the eu and lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the european neighbourhood policy is aimed at offering its neighbours a privileged relationship. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. this vote was on a legal text to add the names of those countries that joined the eu in the 2004 enlargement to the official documents. as this agreement is foreseen to lead to future trade agreements, i was against it in principle. however, as the lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this protocol, which contains a framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of lebanon in european union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i abstained. no opinion.
in writing. ‒ after having supported the framework agreement between the eu and lebanon, which will allow for greater financial and technical cooperation between the regions, i decided to support this resolution in order to take account of the accession of the czech republic, the republic of estonia, the republic of cyprus, the republic of latvia, the republic of lithuania, the republic of hungary, the republic of malta, the republic of poland, the republic of slovenia, and the slovak republic to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i supported this protocol as i had no problems with the final arrangements.
in writing. – similar to the previous framework vote, this vote concerned greater economic integration between the eu and lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the european neighbourhood policy is aimed at offering its neighbours a privileged relationship. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. this vote was on a legal text to add the names of those countries that joined the eu in the 2004 enlargement to the official documents. as this agreement is foreseen to lead to future trade agreements, i was against it in principle. however, as the lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. – this particular vote was on a legal text to add the names of bulgaria and romania, who joined the eu in 2009, to the official documents. i had concerns with this report as one of its aims is to increase economic integration between the eu and lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. however, as lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ similar to the previous framework vote, this vote concerned greater economic integration between the eu and lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the european neighbourhood policy which is aimed at offering its neighbours a privileged relationship. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. this particular vote was on a legal text to add the names of bulgaria and romania, who joined the eu in 2009, to the official documents. as lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this protocol, which is to have the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european community and its member states, of the one part, and the republic of lebanon, of the other part, approved on behalf of the union and its member states to take account of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the union.
in writing. ‒ i abstained. no opinion.
in writing. ‒ i supported this recommendation, as did the majority of the parliament. like the previous votes on the framework agreement between the eu and lebanon, which i supported and which are vital for economic, financial and technical cooperation between the two regions, account needed to be taken of the accession of the republic of bulgaria and romania to the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol as i had no concerns with its final format.
in writing. – this particular vote was on a legal text to add the names of bulgaria and romania, who joined the eu in 2009, to the official documents. i had concerns with this report as one of its aims is to increase economic integration between the eu and lebanon in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. in practice however, this policy has been criticised hugely for its eurocentricity, hypocritical attitude towards some of the conditionality requirements and damage that can be done to indigenous sectors. however, as lebanese authorities have taken the decision themselves to enhance cooperation, i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which has the overall aim of reducing tax avoidance and evasion. sinn féin have been very active in europe on the issue of tax avoidance and closing the loopholes which permit multinationals to engage in widespread tax avoidance and evasion. from playing an active role on taxe and now on the panama papers, sinn féin will continue to ensure that multinationals are obliged to pay the taxes which they owe. this particular report, approves the agreement that has been negotiated by the eu and monaco on the automatic exchange of financial account information between eu member states and monaco relating to accounts of each other’s residents. automatic exchange of information will take place from 2018 on information collected since the start of next year. under the agreement, monaco will apply measures equivalent to the eu’s on reporting the taxation of savings income, and come into line with the oecd’s 2014 standards. (there was a previous agreement on this in 2004 which monaco is updating to current standards adopted in the eu in december 2014).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which approves the agreement that has been negotiated by the eu and monaco on the automatic exchange of financial account information between eu member states and monaco relating to accounts of each other’s residents. the purpose is to reduce tax avoidance and evasion. automatic exchange of information will take place from 2018 on information collected since the start of next year. under the agreement, monaco will apply measures equivalent to the eu’s on reporting the taxation of savings income, and come into line with the oecd’s 2014 standards. there was a previous agreement on this in 2004 which monaco is updating to current standards adopted in the eu in december 2014. as the general aim is to reduce tax avoidance and evasion i was happy to vote in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because as a result of the new agreement, tax administrations in the member states and in monaco will be able to:- identify correctly and unequivocally the taxpayers concerned.
in writing. ‒ i supported the eu- monaco agreement on the automatic exchange of financial account information because i believe that it will be an important step in ongoing efforts to clamp down on tax fraud and tax evasion. in the wake of the panama papers scandal this agreement will allow the eu member states and monaco to automatically exchange information on the financial accounts held on their territories by each other’s residents. i was happy to note that the agreement will be in line with the 2014 oecd global standard and provides for further provisions which aim at securing exchanged information concerns such as interest and dividends, and also account balances and proceeds from the sale of financial assets. i also believe that this agreement will improve international tax cooperation and compliance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no objections to its final arrangement.
in writing. ‒ i support this report that updates the eu’s agreements with monaco.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which has the overall aim of reducing tax avoidance and evasion. sinn féin have been very active in europe on the issue of tax avoidance and closing the loopholes which permit multinationals to engage in widespread tax avoidance and evasion. from playing an active role on taxe and now on the panama papers, sinn féin will continue to ensure that multinationals are obliged to pay the taxes which they owe. this particular report, approves the agreement that has been negotiated by the eu and monaco on the automatic exchange of financial account information between eu member states and monaco relating to accounts of each other’s residents. automatic exchange of information will take place from 2018 on information collected since the start of next year. under the agreement, monaco will apply measures equivalent to the eu’s on reporting the taxation of savings income, and come into line with the oecd’s 2014 standards. (there was a previous agreement on this in 2004 which monaco is updating to current standards adopted in the eu in december 2014).
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with an application to the european globalisation adjustment fund. sinn féin have called for reform of this european fund which is designed to support workers who lose their jobs as a consequence of globalisation. however, my sinn féin colleague eoin ó broin requested documents to be released under the freedom of information act which showed that millions of euro in such supports, provided through the european globalisation adjustment fund, had already been returned to the european commission. sinn féin has called on the minister for education jan o’sullivan and minister of state for skills damien english to ensure €4.15 million in funding for 424 redundant lufthansa technik workers in rathcoole, dublin, to be spent by next september’s deadline as, as it stands, it appears that 63% of this fund will remain unspent.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was an approval of an application by belgium to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf). the report approved aid of €1.8 million for 488 redundant workers from caterpillar belgium sa. the egf funds are used to provide re-training and personalised job search supports to workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and major changes in global trade patterns. in recent years changes to the rules of the egf has meant that workers made redundant as a result of the financial crisis can also be covered by the egf programmes. caterpillar group in the eu was largely dependent on public/private partnerships. since these have been considerably reduced since the financial crash, large scale liquidations ensued. naturally i support the proposal to provide assistance to workers made redundant as a result of the crisis to find new employment.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote on the european globalisation adjustment fund, which has been created in order to provide additional assistance to workers suffering from the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it reiterates its call on the commission to assure public access to all the documents related to egf cases.
in writing. ‒ i supported this application to mobilise €1,824,041 of the egf for 488 workers in belgium made redundant in three enterprises under hainaut machinery that specialised in production of machines in the construction sector (carwall sa; caterpillar belgium sa; doosan sa) in the economic sector classified under the nce revision 2 division 28 (manufacture of machinery and equipment). hainaut machinery is a belgian machine construction company that due to structural changes in world trade patterns has undergone serious disruptions in union trade, resulting in a negative impact on the profitability in the three eu enterprises that specialised in production of machines in the construction sector. hainaut is facing a difficult labour market situation with an unemployment rate of 14.5% (5.9% higher than the national average), 1 236 job losses in 2013 and 1 878 in 2014 in the manufacturing sector. there has been a drop in job offers of 13% since 2012 and high proportion of underqualified labour, as over half of the job seekers lack upper secondary qualifications, as well as high levels of long-term unemployment, which stands at 39.0% of overall unemployment in hainaut region.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, as i had no objections to the proposed outcome.
in writing. ‒ i support the mobilisation of funds to assist those facing long-term unemployment.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with an application to the european globalisation adjustment fund. sinn féin have called for reform of this european fund which is designed to support workers who lose their jobs as a consequence of globalisation. however, my sinn féin colleague eoin ó broin requested documents to be released under the freedom of information act which showed that millions of euro in such supports, provided through the european globalisation adjustment fund, had already been returned to the european commission. sinn féin has called on the minister for education jan o’sullivan and minister of state for skills damien english to ensure €4.15 million in funding for 424 redundant lufthansa technik workers in rathcoole, dublin, to be spent by next september’s deadline as, as it stands, it appears that 63% of this fund will remain unspent.
in writing. – i abstained on this report, which was concerned with technical measures concerning caging operations in the mediterranean. the report which was a multi annual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean put in place by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) in 2006 to address the alarming depletion in stock levels. however, it should be noted that the provisions contained within the recovery plan do not apply to ireland.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which was a multi annual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean put in place by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) in 2006 to address the alarming depletion in stock levels. this proposal aims at implementing into union law recovery measures adopted by the iccat at its annual meetings between 2012 and 2014 with a view to ensuring uniform application of the recovery plan throughout the eu. these are mainly technical measures concerning caging operations in the mediterranean. these measures do not concern ireland.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote on the report on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as i do not believe the common fisheries policy is ireland’s interests.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report. this plan was set up to rebuild bluefin tuna stock and came after the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas also adopted a multiannual recovery plan. i was happy that the report acknowledged that the commission’s proposal went further than the iccat and even what eu legislation allows for. the aim of the transposition of the iccat recommendations is to have uniform application throughout the eu; it is not to reopen the discussion about what has already been decided. uniform application should aim at ensuring a level playing field for all operators, including non-eu operators. otherwise, all the restrictions applied to eu fishermen will have no result, if different rules apply to foreign fleets. finally, i was pleased that the rapporteur addressed the issue of delegated acts by the commission. considering the european parliament are not negotiating the iccat agreement, the co-decision procedure is the only possible way we can influence the transposition of the agreement into union law. if, in the future, delegated acts were used then it would mean that the parliament has no say at all in iccat negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, as i had no objections to the recovery plan.
in writing. ‒ i support this report that acknowledges the role of traditional gears and techniques in the conservation and rebuilding tuna fish stock.
in writing. – i abstained on this report, which was concerned with technical measures concerning caging operations in the mediterranean. the report which was a multi annual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean put in place by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) in 2006 to address the alarming depletion in stock levels. however, it should be noted that the provisions contained within the recovery plan do not apply to ireland.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the multiannual plan for the stocks of cod, herring and sprat in the baltic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks.
in writing. ‒ i voted against as i do not believe the common fisheries policy is ireland’s interests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above resolution. the ecosystem-based approach to fisheries management which is put forward in this resolution is essential to the maintenance of european marine wildlife systems. the resolution sets the fishing mortality target so that it takes into account the most recent scientific advice and should continue to do so, on a progressive, incremental basis, until 2020 at the latest. moreover, the resolution provides for the temporary cessation of fishing activities in the region to allow for the replenishment of fish stock levels. i believe that maintaining fish stocks above levels capable of producing maximum sustainable yield is essential to the economic and environmental development of the eu and its regions.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution, as it is a pre-emptive measure and a tool for ensuring the sustainable management of our fish stocks.
in writing. ‒ i support this report that seeks to ensure the sustainability and conservation of future fish stocks in the baltic sea.
in writing. – as these regulations will not affect national family law in the participating member states, but simply set out opaque rules to determine what jurisdiction is applicable and ensure enforcement of decisions in the case of international matrimonial disputes, i voted in favour. i am disappointed that the irish government has chosen to opt out given the added value this could have for citizens and the saving of legal costs.
in writing. ‒ this file follows on from another file voted on at the last plenary on property regimes of international couples. it seeks to define the rules applicable for jurisdiction, applicable law and the enforcement of decisions for international matrimonial property regimes. the last vote was consent of the parliament for 17 member states to proceed through the enhanced cooperation system, i.e. not through the normal eu legislative process. the parliament now has to give its consent to the framework content of proposals by the european commission, after which, negotiations between these countries will begin outside of the normal eu legislative process. the resolution basically asks the council to notify parliament if negotiations depart from the framework presented today. as these regulations will not affect national family law in the participating member states, but merely set out clear rules to determine what jurisdiction is applicable and ensure enforcement of decisions in the case of international matrimonial disputes. i was happy to vote in favour. i am disappointed that the irish government has chosen to opt out given the added value this could have for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote, which covers jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of matrimonial property regimes. its scope does not cover such matters as the legal capacity of the spouses, the existence, validity or recognition of a marriage, maintenance obligations or succession to the estate of a deceased spouse in order to preserve the member states’ autonomy in family law, nor does the regulation affect the member states’ substantive law on matrimonial property systems.
in writing. ‒ as a result of the eu’s free movement of persons and the absence of internal borders there have been an increase in the number of couples formed by nationals of different member states who live in a member state other than their own or acquire property in more than one member state. this regulation facilitates this by establishing a comprehensive set of rules of international private law applicable to matrimonial property regimes. it therefore aims to enable citizens to have their various related procedures handled by the courts of the same member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal, as i had no objections to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that provides greater clarity to which courts have jurisdiction to rule on proceedings on matrimonial property regimes.
in writing. – as these regulations will not affect national family law in the participating member states, but simply set out opaque rules to determine what jurisdiction is applicable and ensure enforcement of decisions in the case of international matrimonial disputes, i voted in favour. i am disappointed that the irish government has chosen to opt out given the added value this could have for citizens and the saving of legal costs.
in writing. – this file is the same as the previous file. it follows on from another file voted on at the last plenary on property regimes of international couples. the resolution asks the council to notify parliament if negotiations depart from the framework which has been presented. similar to the previous files, as these regulations will not affect national family law in the participating member states, but simply set out opaque rules to determine what jurisdiction is applicable and ensure enforcement of decisions in the case of international matrimonial disputes, i voted in favour. i am disappointed that the irish government has chosen to opt out given the added value this could have for citizens and the saving of legal costs.
in writing. ‒ this file follows on from another file voted on at the last plenary on property regimes of international couples. it seeks to define the rules applicable for jurisdiction, applicable law and the enforcement of decisions for international registered partnerships concerning property regimes. the last vote was consent of the parliament for 17 member states to proceed through the enhanced cooperation system, i.e. not through the normal eu legislative process. the parliament now has to give its consent to the framework content of proposals by the european commission, after which, negotiations between these countries will begin outside of the normal eu legislative process. the resolution basically asks the council to notify parliament if negotiations depart from the framework presented today. as these regulations will not affect national family law in the participating member states, but merely set out clear rules to determine what jurisdiction is applicable and ensure enforcement of decisions in the case of international matrimonial disputes. i was happy to vote in favour. i am disappointed that the irish government has chosen to opt out given the added value this could have for citizens.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote, which covers jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matters of the property consequences of registered partnerships.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because the proposal provides for the free circulation of decisions, authentic instruments and court settlements concerning matrimonial property regimes.
in writing. ‒ many international couples of separate member states face practical and legal difficulties, both in the daily management of their property and in its division if the couple separate or one of its members dies. the european union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is ensured. the aim of the proposal is to establish a clear, legal framework in the european union for determining jurisdiction and the law applicable to the property consequences of registered partnerships. it therefore deals with matters of jurisdiction, applicable law and the recognition and enforcement of decisions regarding the property consequences of a registered partnership. i believe that couples who are registered partners will be protected under eu law.
in writing. ‒ i supported this proposal as i had no objections to the final proposal.
in writing. ‒ i support this report that establishes clearly the jurisdiction, law and recognition of decisions of courts in matters of property consequences of registered partnerships.
in writing. – this file is the same as the previous file. it follows on from another file voted on at the last plenary on property regimes of international couples. the resolution asks the council to notify parliament if negotiations depart from the framework which has been presented. similar to the previous files, as these regulations will not affect national family law in the participating member states, but simply set out opaque rules to determine what jurisdiction is applicable and ensure enforcement of decisions in the case of international matrimonial disputes, i voted in favour. i am disappointed that the irish government has chosen to opt out given the added value this could have for citizens and the saving of legal costs.
in writing. – the initiative put forward by the european parliament calling for peace in the congo region was progressive, however, the joint motion for a resolution was not critical enough on the interference of certain countries and companies in destabilising the country. my group, gue/ngl tabled an alternative resolution which was much more critical and got to the root of the issues. however, as the majority of meps voted in favour of the joint resolution, i did not have an opportunity to endorse this alternative one and therefore, i was left with no choice but to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report which is concerned with ongoing violence in eastern congo and calls for action to help end it. congo has known armed conflicts for a very long time, mostly due to it being a mineral rich country. although happy with the initiative by the european parliament to call for peace, the joint motion for a resolution was not critical enough on the interference of certain countries and companies in destabilising the country. my own european political group had tabled an alternative resolution which was much more critical, however as the majority of meps voted in favour of the joint resolution, i did not have an opportunity to endorse this alternative one.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for resolution on massacres in eastern congo.
in writing. ‒ i am deeply concerned the regarding the escalation of violence and the alarming and deteriorating humanitarian situation in the democratic republic of the congo. an independent and transparent investigation should be launched in order to assess the human rights violations and war crimes. the european union should work closely with the african union to ensure a permanent political dialogue in order to prevent any further destabilisation of the region. i welcome the any effort to implement and maintain peace in the region on the part of the congolese authorities.
in writing. – the initiative put forward by the european parliament calling for peace in the congo region was progressive, however, the joint motion for a resolution was not critical enough on the interference of certain countries and companies in destabilising the country. my group, gue/ngl tabled an alternative resolution which was much more critical and got to the root of the issues. however, as the majority of meps voted in favour of the joint resolution, i did not have an opportunity to endorse this alternative one and therefore, i was left with no choice but to abstain on this resolution.
in writing. – this report was concerned with european cooperation in education and training. while there were some progressive provisions, particularly those which addressed the need to include refugees and migrants in the education system, the report contained instructions on harmonising national education and training systems, and that runs contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. sinn féin is committed to ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is respected and strengthened at national level. in everyday language, subsidiarity means that decisions should be made at the lowest level possible, i.e. at the level of power that should take action. erosion or breaches of the principle of subsidiarity can lead to unintended consequences – undermining, for example, citizens’ faith in the european union – and should, therefore, be avoided. whilst the report contained some progressive elements, these failed to mitigate the erosion of the principle of subsidiarity, and i therefore voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report, which concerns european cooperation in education and training. although there are some general good elements, addressing the need to include refugees and migrants in the education system, there are some issues with national sovereignty. in particular, the report contains instructions on national education and training systems, with the aim of harmonising those systems, which is contradictory to the principle of subsidiarity. for this reason, i chose to abstain.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report. in a time of high youth unemployment, affecting even graduates, it is of foremost importance to evaluate the european et2020 framework with a view to increasing its added value and optimising its effectiveness. the stocktaking exercise conducted by the commission in 2014 concluded with a number of recommendations from the commission and council for addressing the problem of the complex landscape of et2020 and its governance: definition of mandates for the new generation working group, involvement of independent experts, closer dialogue, and more regular consultation and coordination between the commission, member states and educational stakeholders.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on education and training 2020 (et2020) which aims to improve control and coordination of the existing framework (e.g. by extending working groups with various stakeholders, such as civil society representatives, teachers and youth workers), in order to enhance the quality of education and training, and to highlight the migration aspect. i was happy that the report stressed the need to prioritise the integration of migrants and asylum seekers into the labour market, e.g. by quickly setting up a system of language courses and basic skills training. it is important that past mistakes on immigration are not replicated in the future, for that could lead to integration difficulties in member states. thankfully, this report points out the major role of education, training and sport in this process. better cooperation between the eu and the national authorities is required in order to find the right approach to the full integration of migrants and asylum seekers into education and training systems and to ensure that existing qualifications are properly recognised.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, as i did not have any objections to the final report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which outlines key priorities in helping to combat the high level of youth unemployment and promote inclusivity in education and our society.
in writing. – this report was concerned with european cooperation in education and training. while there were some progressive provisions, particularly those which addressed the need to include refugees and migrants in the education system, the report contained instructions on harmonising national education and training systems, and that runs contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. sinn féin is committed to ensuring that the principle of subsidiarity is respected and strengthened at national level. in everyday language, subsidiarity means that decisions should be made at the lowest level possible, i.e. at the level of power that should take action. erosion or breaches of the principle of subsidiarity can lead to unintended consequences – undermining, for example, citizens’ faith in the european union – and should, therefore, be avoided. whilst the report contained some progressive elements, these failed to mitigate the erosion of the principle of subsidiarity, and i therefore voted against it.
the president, who had the support of the majority of the member states, was also present for the report, which was approved by more than 80% of the member states, 444 votes in favour and 103 against. the european parliament will be able to take part in the cop 21 and the parties will be able to take part in the parliament before the end of december. but of course, it is a wonderful opportunity to bring energy in-house to europe's entire sea-faring population", said president juncker. in particular, we have more time to do research, research is being done and i would like to remind myself of ionad taighde beaufort i rinn an scidígh i gcorcaigh, about the taoide, about the tuilte agus about the gaoth ar an bhfarraige. it will be no different when there is no technology.
in writing. – this report was a positive and progressive one, which highlighted the need for a modal shift and for higher energy efficiency of renewables in order to improve the sustainability of transport. furthermore, it criticises the promotion of biofuels for transport, which competes with the food production sector. the report also analyses how member states have done in achieving their renewable energy targets. there is currently an eu target of 20%, which is shared by member states and broken down into national targets. ireland has fallen short of the heat energy target. while this is not acceptable, the report correctly expresses concern that some member states may have to revise policies and instruments in order to achieve their targets. for these reasons outlined above, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which analyses how member states have done in achieving their renewable energy targets. there is currently an eu target of 20%, which is shared by member states and broken down into national targets. some member states have been quicker to implement their targets than others. for instance, ireland is set to fall short of its heat energy target, but to reach others. the report expresses concern that some member states may have to revise policies and instruments to achieve their targets. overall, the report is quite good, criticising the promotion of biofuels for transport, which competes with the food production sector. the report highlights the need for a modal shift and for higher energy efficiency of renewables in order to improve the sustainability of transport. and it rightly criticises the reliance on market mechanisms to get us all to use renewables. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which examines member states’ policies for implementing renewable energy initiatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i have no problems with the outcome.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of promoting energy diversification, phasing out subsidies on mature renewable energy and encouraging competitiveness in our renewable energy sector.
in writing. – this report was a positive and progressive one, which highlighted the need for a modal shift and for higher energy efficiency of renewables in order to improve the sustainability of transport. furthermore, it criticises the promotion of biofuels for transport, which competes with the food production sector. the report also analyses how member states have done in achieving their renewable energy targets. there is currently an eu target of 20%, which is shared by member states and broken down into national targets. ireland has fallen short of the heat energy target. while this is not acceptable, the report correctly expresses concern that some member states may have to revise policies and instruments in order to achieve their targets. for these reasons outlined above, i voted in favour.
the uachtaráin, of course, is a very important report and it is also very controversial. i should also like to commend the report to my own group, the feisire pieper, which has done a great deal of work to ensure that laws are finally adopted in the community and that laws are passed in the group in all the member states. if there were votes in favour of a group, then when a member of the group voted against the report, he would be voting against it. i did not vote against the report myself; i voted against my group. on my own side of the aisle, i'm very happy to be here today, and i'm very happy to be here tomorrow, and i'm very happy to be here tomorrow, and i'm very happy to be here tomorrow, and i'm very happy to be here tomorrow, and i'm very happy to be here tomorrow, and i'm very happy to be here tomorrow, and i'm very happy to be here today, and i'm very happy to be here today, and i'm very happy to be here today, and i'm very happy to be here today, and i'm very happy to be here today, and i'm very happy to be here today, and i'm very happy to be here today. i hope we can find a solution here.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was an implementation report by markus pieper on the energy efficiency directive. the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) establishes a framework of measures for the promotion of energy efficiency in the eu and sets a non-binding target of 20% energy efficiency improvements by 2020. the eu as a whole is expected to fall short of this non-binding target, although the commission and the rapporteur are optimistic and claim we can still reach the target. this report further calls for full implementation of existing legislation, accelerated efforts and the removal of barriers to investment. in the committee phase, my political group, gue/ngl, tabled alternative compromise amendments with other progressive groups calling for a binding 40% target on energy efficiency for 2030. this is positive, as it displays political will and commitment to the paris climate change agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which reviewed the implementation of the energy efficiency directive. the eu is on the way to reaching its 20% efficiency target for 2020, which demonstrates that energy efficiency is in the own interest of businesses and households.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no objections to the results of the review.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this report as it does not respect the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was an implementation report by markus pieper on the energy efficiency directive. the energy efficiency directive (2012/27/eu) establishes a framework of measures for the promotion of energy efficiency in the eu and sets a non-binding target of 20% energy efficiency improvements by 2020. the eu as a whole is expected to fall short of this non-binding target, although the commission and the rapporteur are optimistic and claim we can still reach the target. this report further calls for full implementation of existing legislation, accelerated efforts and the removal of barriers to investment. in the committee phase, my political group, gue/ngl, tabled alternative compromise amendments with other progressive groups calling for a binding 40% target on energy efficiency for 2030. this is positive, as it displays political will and commitment to the paris climate change agreement.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for resolution on the british/eu referendum.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the youth guarantee is a flagship project for the eu and we must deliver on our guarantee. a guarantee is a very strong word. it means we provide a definite assurance, we promise, we pledge to young people that they will receive a quality offer of employment, a traineeship, an apprenticeship, further education within four months of becoming unemployed or of finishing education. when we make that pledge, we must deliver. in order to do that we must have evidence-based policymaking. it is certainly about adequate resources, but equally it is about effective spending. that is why we posed this question to the commission today. the only information we have to date are the three comments from the court of auditors. they talk about having concerns about adequacy of funding, the definition of a good quality offer and how the commission monitors and reports on the results of the scheme. i listened to the commissioner here today and perhaps the information is not yet available. yes, i hear positive comments but, as to the specific question, i am not a lot wiser. one of the questions asked was how we streamline access to the youth guarantee, and access is crucial. in this context, i made a complaint to the commission that young people with disabilities in ireland are not able to access the youth guarantee. i received a reply from the commission saying that they are satisfied with the irish government’s response, which said there were alternative back-to-work supports for young people with disabilities. but the very point of the youth guarantee is that it is a guarantee for all young people and there must be no exceptions. in ireland young people with disabilities are on disability allowance and not on jobseekers’ allowance and so cannot access the youth guarantee. we need to streamline our system to ensure that this discrimination is stopped immediately, and we need the support of the commission in doing this. member states should not be allowed to slide out of their responsibilities.
mr president, i think, having been involved in cop 21 in paris last year it was a wonderful occasion – the first time ever we have had a global agreement, probably in anything. so all countries are now moving to help reduce greenhouse gas emissions and keep the temperature of global warming below 2 degrees, moving to 1.5 degrees. and every facet of human activity has to come into that. energy efficiency is a key area and i think a lot more can be done and i am glad now we are getting down to the details on it. we have our targets but now we are getting down to the details, especially in bringing consumers with us who want to make a contribution, who want to save the planet and want, obviously, to reduce their bills. the idea of anything with an a attached to it means it is the best, whether it is a+ or a++, that is only a detail. i think moving to the new classification makes far more sense and will be far simpler for consumers, which they will appreciate and will help us reach those targets which is so vital. well done to everybody.
i'm going to the hospital, i'm going to the hospital, i'm going to the hospital, i'm going to the hospital. in the past, there were many laws on competition, but now they are being made to be on competition because of the importance of understanding the laws and strategies of trade. it's simple; if more countries can trade with it, other countries will export it, they will sell it, and they will have more money. so i'm not going to be able to do that. we finished our vietnam before christmas. we were there in august. we were remitted to them in august. we had an agreement to have laws in place. but of course it is important to move forward and we will allow the commission to move forward with its strategy, especially as regards civil, social and environmental rights. we're going to go against the law in the community and we're going to have to deal with all of it.
mr president, sorry to delay proceedings, but is it possible that the list of speakers could appear on the screen as they do for all other debates, so that the next speaker can be ready? that would speed up the process.
mr president, brexit poses many challenges, but without a doubt the country most affected aside from the uk itself will be ireland. 17% of our exports go to the uk, with a large proportion from our smes and our agri-food sector. we also risk the possibility of having a hard border right through the middle of our small island. ireland will need some kind of temporary or interim regime, or some type of support, if the uk does not have access to the single market. there have been calls for a soft landing for northern ireland, for example, but any type of light regime for northern ireland while they maintain access to the single market would significantly damage our economy in the republic. if a business or farmer in northern ireland did not have to comply with the same rules – did not have to operate under the same regime as a business or farmer in the republic – then they would have a huge competitive advantage and we would not be operating on a level playing field. in a balanced way, we in ireland must strongly defend all our economic interests.
mr president, the fallout from brexit is fast and furious: sterling down to a 30-year low, a aaa rating gone, scotland talking about leaving, and in ireland we have our problems because the united kingdom is our closest ally and our biggest trading partner. the european union spent millions helping to create peace in northern ireland. if the hard border is re-introduced, there is a danger it will play into the hands of extremism and all that good work could be undone again. for this, we can thank three people in particular: the three musketeers – dithering david, bluffing boris and ferocious farage. they could not stop putting the boot into europe, but now their legacy is that they have put the ‘dis’ into the united kingdom – disunited geographically, generationally and politically. for that, i think they should get a special award, and the award i would give them is the ‘wrecking ball’ award. i could not think of three people who deserve it more.
blue-card question. – mr corbett, if people here from other countries who wanted britain to remain had been more positive about the eu, do you think you might have stayed? my example is mr verhofstadt, who is a european federalist integrationist, and his strongest argument in here seems to be that if you do not stay you will be a dwarf. if i said that to my wife in order to convince her to stay with me, she would leave, and she would be right. mr verhofstadt wants a united europe. do you think he has contributed to splitting it up?
madam president, the brexit vote has set the alarm bells ringing across europe but the message from the british people is not just for their own government. it is for the eu, for the council, for the commission and for you, mr juncker, especially. it is good to see you are listening. the ec that we joined with britain back in 1973 was a worthy project, bringing peace and prosperity to europe. the eu, with the euro to the fore, is a catastrophe undoing all that good. look at how this so—called union is treating ireland. we were blackmailed and bullied into taking on debt that was not ours and given loans to the tune of eur 67.5 billion to bail out the european banks. most of our own banks were already dead, zombies. as a direct result of that, we are now in the process of borrowing money to destroy eur 2 billion last year alone. look at what the eu and its euro did to greece, to spain, to portugal and to italy. there is a saying, mr juncker, ‘don’t hold on to a mistake just because you spent a long time making it’. i say here: undo this union, starting with lisbon and nice, or else, mr juncker, ask not for whom that bells tolls. it tolls for you. listen for a change.
mr president, it has been rightly said that ireland has more at stake than any other member state because of our close relationship with britain. they are our best allies and also our biggest trading partner. allied to that, we have the border and we do not want under any circumstances to see a hard border restored because that would lead us into the hands of the extremists once again. having said that, ireland is fully committed to the european union, a european union of equals, and that is why we have to ensure that there are no more special meetings of the original six. i also want to say that calls for the united kingdom meps either to step down or to resign from their positions or from their portfolios within the european parliament are incorrect. they are as legitimate as any of us and they are entitled to stay until such time as the united kingdom actually leaves the european union. finally, i just want to say that i welcome mr nuttall’s conciliatory tone this morning, but we have a dilemma. if the united kingdom is seen to be better off outside the european union, why would any member stay within it?
mr president, last week we voted to urge the united kingdom to let us know as soon as possible how they might implement and respect the vote of their citizens, but we clearly know now – because events have unfolded – that this may take some time. what i am concerned about is to reassure citizens in my constituency of midlands north-west, which borders with northern ireland, that, until there is change, everything remains the same, although we know that uncertainty causes deep concern. community groups, businesses, schools and colleges throughout the region are deeply disturbed by what might result from the united kingdom’s leaving the european union. so we must ensure that, in what happens when there is a new prime minister, the current arrangements are respected. we will have no borders again between the republic of ireland and northern ireland. we want trade to continue, but we must respect the four freedoms and we want to ensure that the uk continues to understand the importance of the relationship with the republic of ireland and build on it.
mr president, everybody has a different reason for brexit. for some, it is globalisation, too much trade; for others, we need more trade, we need to open more markets. for some, it is the democratic deficit; for others we need ever-closer union. for some, it is all those rules from brussels which hamper business, disrupt agriculture and annoy citizens; for others, we need more rules to protect the environment. we need to enhance health and safety at work, and we need to clamp down on tax evasion by multinationals. in truth, it is a combination of all of those things, but if there is a common thread, it is that, for one reason or another, people in the uk were not convinced that the eu was a positive project that they wanted to be part of. there are no easy answers, but that is our challenge in the eu. in my opinion, we can reconnect to citizens if we put social europe and economic europe side by side, and if the eu is seen as a lever that will reduce inequalities, both between and within member states. now, more than ever, we sink or we swim together.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour this agreement, which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of peru when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special-passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour this agreement, which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of peru when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special-passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and had no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i support visa—free travel in this case.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement although the united kingdom and ireland will not participate in the agreement and are therefore not subject to its provisions. this agreement on a waiver of short-stay visas marks a significant milestone in the deepening of relations between the european union and the republic of peru and is an additional way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the agreement will strengthen regional coherence, given that peru is one of the minority of latin american countries whose nationals still need a visa, and will have a significant impact on rapprochement between the peoples of europe and peru.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as i have no objections to the agreement’s effects.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of allowing a visa waiver for peruvian and european union citizens when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for periods of less than 90 days. due regard has been given to non-schengen member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour this agreement, which provides for visa-free travel for the citizens of the european union and for the citizens of peru when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver covers all categories of persons (ordinary, diplomatic, service/official and special-passport holders) travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for the purpose of carrying out a paid activity.
the president was pleased to support the report and is likely to tell us that we can do all the right things for our citizens and our society. in particular, the legislation will help to improve our environment and air quality. the engines of handheld equipment, construction machinery, locomotives and inland waterway vessels are responsible for 15% of nitrous oxide emissions and 5% of particulate-matter emissions. it is important to bring in effective controls on these emissions, as they have significant effects on the quality of air we breathe and, as a result, on our health. the rapporteur and the dutch presidency have done a very good job in relation to this. i also welcome some exemptions, especially for narrow tractors and certain locomotive engines that are only used intermittently. therefore, at the end of the day, the jab maith déanta agus cabhróidh will be laws an comhshaol i gcoitinne agus le sláinte ár saoránach.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with emission limits for non-road mobile machinery (nrmm). it addresses type approval for internal combustion engines, given that nrmm engines constitute a significant proportion of the total man-made emissions of certain noxious atmospheric pollutants. in some cities, non-road mobile machinery (which includes construction machines, vessels and railways etc.) is responsible for up to 30% of traffic pollution. the figures indicate that nrmm is responsible for around 7% of airborne particulates and 16% of nitrogen oxides in europe, causing 400 000 premature deaths each year according to the world health organisation. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with emission limits for non-road mobile machinery (nrmm). it addresses type approval for internal combustion engines, given that nrmm engines constitute a significant proportion of the total man-made emissions of certain noxious atmospheric pollutants. in some cities, non-road mobile machinery (which includes construction machines, vessels and railways etc.) is responsible for up to 30% of traffic pollution. the figures indicate that nrmm is responsible for around 7% of airborne particulates and 16% of nitrogen oxides in europe, causing 400 000 premature deaths each year according to the world health organisation. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on emission limits for non-road mobile machinery and had no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which outlines the substantive requirements relating to emission limits and eu type-approval procedures for engines to be installed in non-road mobile machinery (nrmm). nrmm covers a large variety of machines ranging from small handheld equipment, construction machinery and generating sets to railcars, locomotives and inland waterway vessels. nrmm combustion engines contribute to air pollution and currently account for roughly 15% of the nitrogen oxide (nox) and 5% of the particulate matter emissions in the eu. the emissions limits set out in directive 97/68/ec no longer reflect the current state of technology and do not comprehensively cover all engine categories. this regulation will repeal and replace the current directive, protect human health and the environment, and ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for engines in nrmm.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report as i believe it represents a balanced approach between the protection of our environment and the protection of competitiveness in eu industry.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to streamline requirements for manufacturers across europe and protect the environment. this will help to maintain our commitment to the paris cop21 agreement by reducing our emissions.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with emission limits for non-road mobile machinery (nrmm). it addresses type approval for internal combustion engines, given that nrmm engines constitute a significant proportion of the total man-made emissions of certain noxious atmospheric pollutants. in some cities, non-road mobile machinery (which includes construction machines, vessels and railways etc.) is responsible for up to 30% of traffic pollution. the figures indicate that nrmm is responsible for around 7% of airborne particulates and 16% of nitrogen oxides in europe, causing 400 000 premature deaths each year according to the world health organisation. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
mr president, social inclusion and integration into the labour market are crucial aspects of immigration and, in the case of the european union today, the integration of the great number of refugees we have seen come over the past few years, fleeing wars and atrocities. integration is a challenge one way or another. we have to have our hearts open to those fleeing wars, but our national and european systems also need to be ready for a great number of refugees. this is the responsibility of both member states and the eu. as europeans, we cannot and will not turn our back on our moral and international legal obligation to those who need it. professional integration is a major stepping stone towards social inclusion. it is a two-way street, and the effort needs to be made as well by those who are being integrated. first and foremost, it has to be a humanitarian but also sustainable approach to tackling the issue of increased migration, and in that regard i think that the european commission, especially led by president juncker, have done an awful lot to give leadership and to help solve this unprecedented problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides a good starting point for a process to assist refuges in integrating better, and also in participating in the basic human right to work. moreover, the report contains references to facilitating refugees and asylum seekers in having access to housing, health care, education, social protection and family reunification. for the majority of refugees in europe, integration is the most relevant durable solution, and eu member states have a responsibility to ensure that there are programmes and associated support available to facilitate immigrant integration, and also to identify effective practice. employment is often the key concern for refugee respondents. regarding entering the labour market, specific barriers exist for refugees in addition to the challenges that other migrants face. challenges often include loss of identity documentation and qualification certificates, non-acceptance of qualifications or educational attainment, trauma and uncertainty, anxiety over family separation, the long period of inactivity in the asylum system, and limited social networks. it is, therefore, very positive that this report provides such a compassionate and empathetic approach to the needs of people who are fleeing war.
in writing. ‒ this report provides a good starting point for a process to assist refuges in integrating better, and also in participating in the basic human right to work. moreover, the report contains references to facilitating refugees and asylum seekers in having access to housing, health care, education, social protection and family reunification. for the majority of refugees in europe, integration is the most relevant durable solution, and eu member states have a responsibility to ensure that there are programmes and associated support available to facilitate immigrant integration, and also to identify effective practice. employment is often the key concern for refugee respondents. regarding entering the labour market, specific barriers exist for refugees in addition to the challenges that other migrants face. challenges often include loss of identity documentation and qualification certificates, non-acceptance of qualifications or educational attainment, trauma and uncertainty, anxiety over family separation, the long period of inactivity in the asylum system, and limited social networks. it is, therefore, very positive that this report provides such a compassionate and empathetic approach to the needs of people who are fleeing war.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on integrating and promoting the inclusion of refugees in the labour market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour because it clarifies what it means to be a refugee and highlights the most relevant issues, challenges and opportunities that the social inclusion and integration into the labour market of refugees bring along.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. european integration has been tested in recent months because of the refugee/migration crisis. refugees should be integrated successfully into the european labour market to help ensure their economic security and to contribute to the economics of the host member state. i believe that public spending investing in social inclusion and labour-market integration measures and programmes is likely to have a positive effect on national gdps. with active, large-scale support from microenterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises in the eu, the integration of refugees into the labour market can be successful. i agree with the provision that supplementary language classes be provided for refugee children in their home-country languages, and therefore i support the role of teachers in integrating refugee and migrant children and young people into the education system. the benefits of integrating refugees into the labour market are self-evident and i believe that this would help to secure further unity through the member states at a time when it is badly needed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as i believe understanding the current situation is a necessary step to managing today’s immigration crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which addresses the challenges faced by refugees attempting to integrate into the labour market and education system in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides a good starting point for a process to assist refuges in integrating better, and also in participating in the basic human right to work. moreover, the report contains references to facilitating refugees and asylum seekers in having access to housing, health care, education, social protection and family reunification. for the majority of refugees in europe, integration is the most relevant durable solution, and eu member states have a responsibility to ensure that there are programmes and associated support available to facilitate immigrant integration, and also to identify effective practice. employment is often the key concern for refugee respondents. regarding entering the labour market, specific barriers exist for refugees in addition to the challenges that other migrants face. challenges often include loss of identity documentation and qualification certificates, non-acceptance of qualifications or educational attainment, trauma and uncertainty, anxiety over family separation, the long period of inactivity in the asylum system, and limited social networks. it is, therefore, very positive that this report provides such a compassionate and empathetic approach to the needs of people who are fleeing war.
mr president, i supported this report and, in particular, how trade agreements can play a significant role in upholding social and environmental standards, human rights and corporate social responsibility. one of the core issues around trade agreements is what the commission proposed this afternoon on ceta, the canadian trade deal. it will come forward with its view as to whether member states’ parliaments can vote on the deal. personally, i think it is crucial that member states have a vote just like we have a vote here in the european parliament. otherwise, citizens can legitimately say that there is a democratic deficit. this is a great opportunity for the eu to show its connection to citizens and those they elect to represent them in national parliaments. at a personal level, i would vote against ceta if national parliaments are sidelined. there are other issues, such as isds, which i do not support, but above all national parliaments, as well as the european parliament, must have a role in either accepting or rejecting ceta.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which calls for legally binding human rights and social and environmental standards in the eu’s international trade agreements. it also calls for human rights impact assessments and sustainability impact assessments to become binding, and further highlights the commission’s recent decision to rubber-stamp the vietnam eu free trade agreement without having done so. the resolution further calls for the commission to act within the world trade organisation to promote the setting of enforceable rules for the sustainable management of global supply chains by multinational companies. in addition, it insists that countries signing trade agreements with the eu must also ratify and implement the ilo’s core labour conventions, as well as reasserting the need to maintain and strengthen the role of the international labour organisation (ilo) in international trade agreement negotiations. it calls for full transparency in the negotiations, which is still lacking in the ongoing negotiations on agreements such as ttip and tisa. sinn féin in europe are committed to ensuring that social and labour rights are protected and are continuing to fight the implementation of the neoliberal agenda. for sinn féin, human rights and social rights must always come before profit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which calls for legally binding human rights and social and environmental standards in the eu’s international trade agreements. it also calls for human rights impact assessments and sustainability impact assessments to become binding and highlights the commission’s recent decision to rubber-stamp the vietnam eu free trade agreement without having done so. the resolution calls for the commission to act within the world trade organisation to promote the setting of enforceable rules for the sustainable management of global supply chains by multinational companies. in addition, it insists that countries signing trade agreements with the eu must also ratify and implement the ilo’s core labour conventions, as well as reasserting the need to maintain and strengthen the role of the international labour organisation (ilo) in international trade agreement negotiations. it calls for full transparency in the negotiations, which is still lacking in the ongoing negotiations on agreements such as ttip and tisa. sinn féin are committed to ensuring that social and labour rights are protected and for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and had no objections to it.
in writing. ‒ the resolution explicitly includes the need for the eu to make it legally binding that international trade agreements must respect human rights so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no objections to the final approach taken.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as trade is a vehicle for bringing european values into general practice. this report calls for a ban on the importing of goods produced through slavery or forced labour into the eu. it recognises the importance of sustainable development and standards that must be maintained in future trade agreements.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which calls for legally binding human rights and social and environmental standards in the eu’s international trade agreements. it also calls for human rights impact assessments and sustainability impact assessments to become binding, and further highlights the commission’s recent decision to rubber-stamp the vietnam eu free trade agreement without having done so. the resolution further calls for the commission to act within the world trade organisation to promote the setting of enforceable rules for the sustainable management of global supply chains by multinational companies. in addition, it insists that countries signing trade agreements with the eu must also ratify and implement the ilo’s core labour conventions, as well as reasserting the need to maintain and strengthen the role of the international labour organisation (ilo) in international trade agreement negotiations. it calls for full transparency in the negotiations, which is still lacking in the ongoing negotiations on agreements such as ttip and tisa. sinn féin in europe are committed to ensuring that social and labour rights are protected and are continuing to fight the implementation of the neoliberal agenda. for sinn féin, human rights and social rights must always come before profit.
the president voted to approve the report by a margin of 534 to 710. taispeann is without gur rapport mhaith í agus go bhfuil an chuid is mó of na daoine sásta léi agus cén fáth nach mbeadh? i am in my ball of choice; we are talking about trade and we are giving you the opportunity to trade and you can get the goods to be sold and exported, but without the? so i don't understand why they are so against any trade agreement, against ceta and against ttip. where did we get the jabbana? it's not important. but of course, an agreement has to be fair; the terms of the agreement have to be right. but in the end, we can agree to a good deal to make our citizens happy, and we can make our citizens happy.
i supported this report on a forward-looking and innovative future strategy for trade and investment. but, in particular, i supported the section which speaks about the fact that we need to have an honest debate about the costs and the benefits of free trade. i absolutely disagree with those who say that free trade brings only benefits but, equally, i absolutely disagree with those who automatically oppose free trade. in any trade agreement there will be winners and losers, and not to recognise and plan for this is simply unacceptable. we really do need an honest debate about some of the consequences of free trade, such as manufacturing job losses, the offshoring of certain activities and increased imports in different sectors but, equally, there are benefits. we have increased exports for various sectors. we will have opportunities in the services sector and opportunities for public procurement. it is important – as i said earlier – to acknowledge that there will be winners and losers. we need to say how we will support those who lose, instead of pretending that everybody will win.
in writing. – whilst there was some constructive language around low-carbon economies, illegal wildlife trade and some mention of the precautionary principle, overall this is a very negative report which contained some very regressive provisions. in particular, it called for the trade agreement ceta to be ratified as swiftly as possible for the ‘future interests of eu businesses’. sinn féin in europe have worked tirelessly on highlighting the dangers of these trade agreements. moreover, it welcomes the ttip reading rooms for meps as a commission ‘transparency initiative’. this is despite the fact that any mep has to sign a confidentiality agreement before entering the room. it should further be remembered that what’s inside the reading room is just the tip of the iceberg: the most sensitive documents are still hidden to meps and even national governments. moreover, it recognises the commission’s efforts in bringing forward the new investment court system, which holds the sole purpose of allowing corporations to sue governments for enacting policies through the democratic system. it was for these reasons that i voted against this resolution and in favour of both alternative resolutions since they cover sinn féin’s main concerns on corporate trade.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. while there were was some constructive language around low-carbon economies, illegal wildlife trade and some mention of the precautionary principle, overall this was a very negative report which contained some very regressive provisions. in particular, it called for the trade agreement ceta to be ratified as swiftly as possible for the ‘future interests of eu businesses’. sinn féin in europe have worked tirelessly to highlight the dangers of these trade agreements. it welcomes the ttip reading rooms for meps as a commission ‘transparency initiative’ despite the fact that any mep has to sign a confidentiality agreement before entering the room. it should be remembered that what’s inside the reading room is just the tip of the iceberg; the most sensitive documents are still hidden to meps and even national governments. the resolution also recognises the commission’s efforts in bringing forward the new investment court system, which holds the sole purpose of allowing corporations to sue governments for enacting policies through the democratic system. for these reasons i voted against this resolution and in favour of both alternative resolutions since they cover sinn féin’s main concerns on corporate trade.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and had no objections to it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i agreed with the focus taken by the final report and its push for an effective trade and investment policy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to pursue a more forward looking strategy on trade and investment in the context of global trading today.
in writing. – whilst there was some constructive language around low-carbon economies, illegal wildlife trade and some mention of the precautionary principle, overall this is a very negative report which contained some very regressive provisions. in particular, it called for the trade agreement ceta to be ratified as swiftly as possible for the ‘future interests of eu businesses’. sinn féin in europe have worked tirelessly on highlighting the dangers of these trade agreements. moreover, it welcomes the ttip reading rooms for meps as a commission ‘transparency initiative’, this despite the fact that any mep has to sign a confidentiality agreement before entering the room – and it should further be remembered that what’s inside the reading room is just the tip of the iceberg: the most sensitive documents are still hidden to meps and even national governments. moreover, it recognises the commission’s efforts in bringing forward the new investment court system, which holds the sole purpose of allowing corporations to sue governments for enacting policies through the democratic system. it was for these reasons that i voted against this resolution and in favour of both alternative resolutions since they cover sinn féin’s main concerns on corporate trade.
mr president, it could be said that human trafficking is the modern example, despicable as it is, of man’s inhumanity to man – or perhaps man’s inhumanity to woman and child, because it is nearly always women and children who are exploited and trafficked. ms morvai asked a question on what the european union has been doing and where the results of all its efforts are. well, in fairness, if we look at what was happening in the mediterranean prior to action by the european union in dealing with the people-smugglers from north africa, at least there has been a reduction in that area. but, within europe, the fact that 12 000 children have disappeared is a cause for major concern and obviously means that europol and the member state security forces have to cooperate far more in the future to try and bring these perpetrators of man’s inhumanity to fellow man to justice and, hopefully, custodial sentences.
in writing. – the report has some commendable aspects; it calls for cooperation in combatting human trafficking, it is strong on the impact for women and children, and calls on the eu to do more to find missing refugees etc. however, the inclusion of calls for greater eu military presence in the mediterranean, claims that exploitation does not occur in transit countries, some questionable suggestions regarding refugees, and calls for an eu cross-border labour mechanism, make the report impossible to support. therefore, on this basis, i abstained on the final roll-call vote.
in writing. ‒ the report has some commendable aspects; it calls for cooperation in combatting human trafficking, it is strong on the impact of trafficking on women and children, and it calls on the eu to do more to find missing refugees etc. but the inclusion of calls for greater eu military presence in the mediterranean and claims that exploitation does not occur in transit countries make the report impossible to support. for these reasons i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the fight against trafficking in the eu’s external relations.
in writing. ‒ given the transnational nature of human trafficking, there is need for a consistent approach to the internal and external dimensions of the eu’s policies for combating it. there has been a lack of adequate legislation to criminalise and effectively combat trafficking in human beings in many countries worldwide. as well as this, there is a wide gap between the legislation that does exist and implementation thereof, including on the one hand the limited or non-existent access to justice for victims and on the other hand the lack of prosecution of perpetrators. i support enhanced coordination, cooperation and the systematic exchange of information to investigate and combat transnational trafficking in human beings by stepping up financial and technical assistance and strengthening cross-border communication, and capacity building at government and law enforcement level, including border guards, immigration and asylum officials, criminal investigators and victim support agencies, civil society. the eu should enhance police and judicial cooperation between member states and with third countries – in particular with countries of origin and transit of victims of trafficking in human beings – in the prevention, investigation and prosecution of trafficking in human beings.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report as it takes an in-depth look at the current fight against trafficking in human beings in areas where the eu has built relations with external parties. the report makes important distinctions between human trafficking and migrant smuggling, whilst also clarifying a number of issues that have developed in the fight against human trafficking.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which recognises the rights of victims of all kinds of human trafficking, recognises the links between human trafficking and corruption, and calls for international cooperation to stop human traffickers.
in writing. – the report has some commendable aspects; it calls for cooperation in combatting human trafficking, it is strong on the impact for women and children, and calls on the eu to do more to find missing refugees etc. however, the inclusion of calls for greater eu military presence in the mediterranean, claims that exploitation does not occur in transit countries, some questionable suggestions regarding refugees, and calls for an eu cross-border labour mechanism, make the report impossible to support. therefore, on this basis, i abstained on the final roll-call vote.
i would like to thank the president and his rapporteurs, isabelle thomas and jan olbrycht. first of all, there's a geilleagar ina phraiseach agus ní ag dul i bhfeabhas atá sé. i'm not sure what you mean. we are now going to have a three-fold increase; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs; we are going to have a three-fold increase in the number of jobs created in europe. we're not closed to the commission. the report was prepared in the light of the experience gained by the member states and the commission. we need to take action, we need to put people on the front lines and make real investments in our communities and our societies and stop using the police to say we're not going to support laws in the bank and let people go and have money with them. we have not been given the opportunity to make a rigorous review of the actual implementation of the agreement on air transport. i am therefore calling on the commission and the council to listen carefully to the spirit of the directive and to take the necessary steps.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. odious regime.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion, which lays down financial, and technical rules enabling azerbaijan to participate in certain european union programmes open to third countries. azerbaijan is an important energy partner for the eu and the framework agreement under consideration aims to promote cooperation in sectors and foster people-to-people contacts that should be beneficial for both the eu and azerbaijan. on saying that, i strongly feel that the rule of law, human rights and democracy remain core principles on which relations of the eu with third countries should be based.
in writing. ‒ i gave my consent for this draft recommendation as i had no final objections to the draft and i believe the possibility to extend cultural, educational, environmental, technical and scientific links should be taken to benefit the people of europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of allowing azerbaijani participation in certain eu programmes to allow the country to develop cultural, scientific and educational links in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the adoption of this budget would reduce the share of gni contributions from member states to the union budget in 2016 by eur 1.349 million. member states can use this opportunity of such a reflow to honour their pledges in relation to the refugee crisis and to match the union contribution to the two dedicated union trust funds. the union budget should be enabled to reuse any surplus resulting from under-implementation of appropriations or from fines imposed on companies for breaching union competition law in order to deal with its financing needs, especially in the context of payment shortages. therefore, i have decided to vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i had no problem with the final version and it is a way of encouraging action to aid the refugee crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to enter the 2015 surplus into the 2016 budget.
in writing. – the proposed directive obliges member states to create their own national strategy, specific to their own needs, for network and information security. it is up to the member state to appoint a national competent authority and designate a national point of contact for european cooperation. furthermore, the directive obliges information gathering organisations and operators of essential services, such as banks and health organisations, to immediately report security breaches to the designated national competent authority. this is a welcome new departure. as this proposal marks a step in the right direction in terms of information security, i voted in favour of this directive.
in writing. ‒ the proposed directive obliges member states to create their own national strategy, specific to their own needs, for network and information security. it is up to the member state to appoint a national competent authority and designate a national point of contact for european cooperation. furthermore, the directive obliges information gathering organisations and operators of essential services, such as banks and health organisations, to immediately report security breaches to the designated national competent authority. this is a welcome new departure. as this proposal marks a step in the right direction in terms of information security, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote to have a second reading of the trilogue agreement.
in writing. ‒ overall positive. this is an area where europe should operate. i voted in favour
in writing. ‒ i support a high common level of network and information security across the european union. the directive should focus on critical infrastructure essential for the maintenance of vital economic and societal activities in the fields of energy, transport, banking, financial market infrastructures and health. i believe that in order to ensure a coherent application within the member states and in order to allow for an effective and streamlined cooperation at union level, each member state should appoint one single point of contact. the single point of contact shall ensure, among other things, cross-border cooperation with other single points of contact. i support the provision of the report that allows for flexibility regarding the evidence for compliance with the security requirements imposed on market operators by admitting proof of compliance provided in a form other than security audits.
in writing. ‒ i approved of this measure as it increases the online security for eu citizens and i did not object to the final reading.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to streamline regulatory frameworks and close legislative loopholes across the eu in relation to network and information systems.
in writing. – the proposed directive obliges member states to create their own national strategy, specific to their own needs, for network and information security. it is up to the member state to appoint a national competent authority and designate a national point of contact for european cooperation. furthermore, the directive obliges information gathering organisations and operators of essential services, such as banks and health organisations, to immediately report security breaches to the designated national competent authority. this is a welcome new departure. as this proposal marks a step in the right direction in terms of information security, i voted in favour of this directive.
madam president, i think this is a very good report. my compliments to mr tamburrano, the rapporteur, and also to our own ppe rapporteur, herbert reul. they started off with very divergent views, but by good politics we ended up with good compromises, which will help us reach our targets – especially as a result of the paris climate conference (cop21) in december. we are now in a position where we can adapt to climate change and improve energy efficiency, which is of grave importance if we are to meet those targets, and empowering citizens is a key aspect of that. most citizens want to have as much energy efficiency in all their activities as possible, and proper labelling is a key to that. the labelling we had up until now was rather misleading. everything was ‘a’, which was always supposed to be top class. now we have a more simplified labelling system of a to g, and that will also help industry to adapt in due course.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with updating the energy efficiency labelling directive which was adopted in 2010. the commission has proposed its revision, this time as a regulation to take effect in january 2017. one of the key reasons for this update is that the a-g energy efficiency scale label for consumers has become over-complicated, confusing and therefore misleading for consumers. at the top end (a category) there are several sub-categories a+ a++ a+++ which under this revision will be removed to simplify the labelling so consumers can understand them better. this will also be an incentive to manufacturers to achieve the a category of energy efficiency labelling. the original a-g energy scale will be restored and the same green to red colouring scheme will be retained. therefore, as the provisions help to simplify matters for consumers, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with updating the energy efficiency labelling directive which was adopted in 2010. the commission has proposed its revision, this time as a regulation to take effect in january 2017. one of the key reasons for this update is that the a-g energy efficiency scale label for consumers has become over-complicated, confusing and therefore misleading for consumers. at the top end (a category) there are several sub-categories a+ a++ a+++ which under this revision will be removed to simplify the labelling so consumers can understand them better. this will also be an incentive to manufacturers to achieve the a category of energy efficiency labelling. the original a-g energy scale will be restored and the same green to red colouring scheme will be retained. therefore, as the provisions help to simplify matters for consumers, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted to postpone this report, to stay at first reading.
in writing. ‒ positive for the environment and the consumer. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this legislative report on energy labelling that will now restore the original a to g scale for classifying the energy efficiency of products that will make labels more understandable to the consumer. energy labelling is favourable to the environment as it allows consumers to obtain accurate, relevant and comparable information on the energy efficiency and consumption of energy-related products wherever they are in the union. i was pleased to see the report also clearly bans all kinds of cheating software, which will prevent industry enabling appliances to over-perform better during performance tests.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as, most importantly, it promotes energy use awareness within the eu.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which was concerned with updating the energy efficiency labelling directive which was adopted in 2010. the commission has proposed its revision, this time as a regulation to take effect in january 2017. one of the key reasons for this update is that the a-g energy efficiency scale label for consumers has become over-complicated, confusing and therefore misleading for consumers. at the top end (a category) there are several sub-categories a+ a++ a+++ which under this revision will be removed to simplify the labelling so consumers can understand them better. this will also be an incentive to manufacturers to achieve the a category of energy efficiency labelling. the original a-g energy scale will be restored and the same green to red colouring scheme will be retained. therefore, as the provisions help to simplify matters for consumers, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – i voted against this report which was hugely negative and contained some very disconcerting provisions. the commission proposal provides the impression of a coast guard that will save lives of people in danger at sea. so far this year over 3 000 people have died in the mediterranean while trying to come to europe. many others have been deported to turkey or turned back at borders. rather than taking the necessary measures to avoid these tragedies, such as creating safe and legal pathways for refugees into europe through humanitarian visas and complying with international law, instead we see frontex being turned into the new european border and coast guard agency. what is particularly alarming is that, under the commission’s proposal, the agency will be able to intervene in different member states to close borders, even without the consent of the state concerned. it will take migrants’ fingerprints and other personal data – treating them like criminals. it’s a deportation agency, sending people back to bombs and starvation so that they do not set foot in europe. this is one more step in the racist policy direction that the european union has been engaging in for too long.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which was incredibly negative and contained some very disconcerting provisions. the commission proposal gives the impression of a coast guard that will save lives of people in danger at sea. so far this year over 3 000 people have died in the mediterranean while trying to come to europe. many others have been deported to turkey or turned back at borders. rather than taking the necessary measures to avoid these tragedies, such as creating safe and legal pathways for refugees into europe through humanitarian visas and complying with international law, instead we see frontex being turned into the new european border and coast guard agency. what is particularly alarming in the commission’s proposal is that the agency will be able to intervene in different member states to close borders, even without the consent of the state concerned. it will take migrants’ fingerprints and other personal data – treating them like criminals. it’s fundamentally a deportation agency, sending people back to bombs and starvation so that they do not set foot in ‘fortress europe’. this is one more step in the racist policy direction that the european union has been engaging in for too long.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this, an agreement which ireland will cooperate with as a non-schengen member.
in writing. ‒ i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, although its implications will not affect ireland directly as the regulation constitutes a development of provisions of the schengen acquis in which ireland does not take part, in accordance with council decision 2002/192/ec34. the proposal aims to increase joint management of the eu external borders in order to preserve the integrity of the schengen area. the new ‘european border and coast guard’ has new obligations for member states to supply border guards and equipment to ‘rapid reaction pools’ and there are also provisions on measures that can be taken in the case of a situation requiring urgent action at the external borders. i was particularly pleased to see it took into account new provisions and tasks relating to returns as well as measures to ensure fundamental rights are respected when the agency is carrying out operations. there is a focus on ‘prevention’ in the proposal that aims to ensure that the external border is managed properly and support is given where there are deficiencies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this agreement as i had no objections to the agreement’s provisions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the creation of a european border and coast guard. the ebcg will coordinate management of the external european border and increase internal security in the eu by screening arrivals. this will safeguard free movement of persons in the schengen area.
in writing. – i voted against this report which was hugely negative and contained some very disconcerting provisions. the commission proposal provides the impression of a coast guard that will save lives of people in danger at sea. so far this year over 3 000 people have died in the mediterranean while trying to come to europe. many others have been deported to turkey or turned back at borders. rather than taking the necessary measures to avoid these tragedies, such as creating safe and legal pathways for refugees into europe through humanitarian visas and complying with international law, instead we see frontex being turned into the new european border and coast guard agency. what is particularly alarming is that, under the commission’s proposal, the agency will be able to intervene in different member states to close borders, even without the consent of the state concerned. it will take migrants’ fingerprints and other personal data – treating them like criminals. it’s a deportation agency, sending people back to bombs and starvation so that they do not set foot in europe. this is one more step in the racist policy direction that the european union has been engaging in for too long.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote to agree with the commission proposal.
in writing. ‒ i strongly reject and denounce the reinforcement of the new frontex agency, the commission and council strategies for managing the current refugee situation and the overall commission approach to eu refugee and migration policy. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this emsa proposal that forms part of the border package; the other significant part is the european border and coast guard proposal. this proposal was developed to allow for co-operation between emsa and the european border and coast guard agency and the european fisheries control agency, mainly in the area of information sharing.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as it encourages the development of a better network amongst europe’s pre-existing maritime-related organisations. this will provide better services to assist member states whilst also creating a more efficient maritime safety agency.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of developing eu cooperation on coastguard functions by enhancing cooperation between the european border and coast guard, the european maritime safety agency and the european fisheries control agency.
in writing. – this report is part of the ‘coast guard package’, which aims to change and enhance the powers of the agencies of maritime safety, fisheries control and management of operational cooperation at the external borders, in terms of borders control and coast guard. this means that all agencies, eu and member-states bodies that somehow are related to maritime issues shall contribute to frontex goals. the report and draft regulation assumes that while promoting collaboration and cooperation between authorities that perform coast guard activities, this proposal it is coherent with union policies in terms of migration, transports and mobility. this in no manner or form improves the lives and conditions of fisheries workers or the sustainability of fish stocks. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ this report is part of the ‘coast guard package’, which aims to change and enhance the powers of the agencies of maritime safety, fisheries control and management of operational cooperation at the external borders, in terms of border control and coast guard. this means that all agencies, eu and member-states bodies that somehow are related to maritime issues shall contribute to frontex goals. the report and draft regulation assumes that while promoting collaboration and cooperation between authorities that perform coast guard activities, this proposal is coherent with union policies in terms of migration, transports and mobility. this in no manner or form improves the lives and conditions of fisheries workers or the sustainability of fish stocks. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted against. we are being screwed by the eu when it comes to our fishing water.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this proposal to reinforce european co-operation on coastguard functions and to improve co-operation and co-ordination between the three relevant eu agencies, the european fisheries and control agency (efca), the new european border and coast guard agency and the european maritime safety agency. this will enhance synergies between their respective services, thus allowing them to provide more efficient and cost-effective multipurpose services to national authorities carrying out coastguard functions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as it greatly benefits national authorities and strengthens the work of the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the new european border and coast guard agency by means of pooled resources and cooperation.
in writing. ‒ i supported streamlining the activities and intelligence of the european fisheries control agency, the european maritime safety agency and the european border and coast guard agency in order to enhance maritime safety and security.
in writing. – this report is part of the ‘coast guard package’, which aims to change and enhance the powers of the agencies of maritime safety, fisheries control and management of operational cooperation at the external borders, in terms of borders control and coast guard. this means that all agencies, eu and member-states bodies that somehow are related to maritime issues shall contribute to frontex goals. the report and draft regulation assumes that while promoting collaboration and cooperation between authorities that perform coast guard activities, this proposal it is coherent with union policies in terms of migration, transports and mobility. this in no manner or form improves the lives and conditions of fisheries workers or the sustainability of fish stocks. therefore, i voted against this report.
in writing. – this report was concerned with the role of the supervisory committee and its secretariat as to the control of the work of olaf. olaf and the supervisory committee have been in a continuous fight for the past years. one of the complaints of the sc was that it couldn’t do its work properly because of obstructions from olaf’s side. another issue has been the position of the secretariat of the sc, being financially and in staff matters dependent on olaf. the amended regulation aims to strengthen the independence of the secretariat from olaf. there is an overall consensus to place the secretariat financially and in hr matters separately from olaf, which could help the functioning of the sc and create a much more needed independence. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ this report was concerned with the role of the supervisory committee and its secretariat as to the control of the work of olaf. olaf and the supervisory committee have been in a continuous fight for the past years. one of the complaints of the sc was that it couldn’t do its work properly because of obstructions from olaf’s side. another issue has been the position of the secretariat of the sc, being financially and in staff matters dependent on olaf. the amended regulation aims to strengthen the independence of the secretariat from olaf. there is an overall consensus to place the secretariat financially and in hr matters separately from olaf, which could help the functioning of the sc and create a much more needed independence. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i agree with the practical measures proposed to emphasise the independence of the secretariat of the anti—fraud office (olaf). i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that is based on an amendment of the olaf (eu anti-fraud office) regulation as regards the budget and secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee (sc). this proposal responds to concerns raised by the olaf supervisory committee regarding a possible conflict of interest with olaf having control over the budget of the secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee. this amendment will have a positive impact on the engagement between olaf and the olaf supervisory committee, as it will allow the independence of the olaf sc to be reinforced without any change in the financial burden.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution as i had no objections to the aspects called for within it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report in order to guarantee the independence of the secretariat of the olaf supervisory committee.
in writing. – this report was concerned with the role of the supervisory committee and its secretariat as to the control of the work of olaf. olaf and the supervisory committee have been in a continuous fight for the past years. one of the complaints of the sc was that it couldn’t do its work properly because of obstructions from olaf’s side. another issue has been the position of the secretariat of the sc, being financially and in staff matters dependent on olaf. the amended regulation aims to strengthen the independence of the secretariat from olaf. there is an overall consensus to place the secretariat financially and in hr matters separately from olaf, which could help the functioning of the sc and create a much more needed independence. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. – whilst there were some positive references in this report in relation to tackling climate change and social exclusion, the negative provisions failed to mitigate the concerns i had with this report and i had no option but to abstain on this report. it is very apparent that we are in very uncertain economic times and it does not appear to be getting any better. of course brexit has, undoubtedly, created waves of uncertainty in ireland and across europe. however, we are stuck in a financial straitjacket which offers no flexibility, and what is more worrying is that there are new trends towards financial instruments without democratic accountability. the mff report references the challenges ahead, but going by the current silence of the commission, i am neither hopeful nor confident that those challenges will be addressed. it’s high time that the commission and council took a new direction and began listening to the people. they need to stop servicing banks and begin putting real investment into our people.
in writing. ‒ while there were some positive references in this report in relation to tackling climate change and social exclusion, the negative provisions failed to mitigate the concerns i had with this report and i had no option but to abstain on this report. it is very apparent that we are in very uncertain economic times and it does not appear to be getting any better. of course brexit has, undoubtedly, created waves of uncertainty in ireland and across europe. we are stuck in a financial straitjacket which offers no flexibility, and what is more worrying is that there are new trends towards financial instruments without democratic accountability. the mff report references the challenges ahead, but going by the current silence of the commission, i am neither hopeful nor confident that those challenges will be addressed. it’s high time that the commission and council took a new direction and began listening to the people. they need to stop servicing banks and begin putting real investment into our people.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote, and i also supported the inclusion of the references to lgbti migrants.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on a revision of the current mff, which was agreed on in 2013 and reflected the priorities of the union at the time of adoption. a post-electoral revision clause was requested by the european parliament to give the new commission and the newly elected parliament the opportunity of reconfirming and reassessing the eu’s political and budgetary priorities by adjusting the mff accordingly. as the eu continues to face future challenges which were not foreseen when the mff was initially approved in 2013, i fully agree that the eu’s financing priorities have changed over the past three years and the mff must be updated to reflect this change.
in writing. – whilst there were some positive references in this report to tacking climate change and social exclusion, the negative provisions failed to mitigate my concerns and i had no option but to abstain. it is very apparent that we are in very uncertain economic times and things do not appear to be getting any better. of course brexit has, undoubtedly, created waves of uncertainty in ireland and across europe. however, we are stuck in a financial straitjacket which offers no flexibility, and what is more worrying is that there are new trends towards financial instruments without democratic accountability. the mff report references the challenges ahead, but going by the current silence of the commission, i am neither hopeful nor confident that those challenges will be addressed. it is high time that the european commission and council took a new direction and began listening to the people. they need to stop servicing banks and begin putting real investment into our people.
in writing. – i abstained on this non-legislative report from the special committee on tax rulings (taxe2) established in the aftermath of the luxleaks revelations. sinn féin supports a global anti-tax avoidance approach under the auspices of the united nations. we support the oecd anti-base erosion and profit shifting (beps) action plan, but do not believe that it goes far enough. effective action can be taken at the european level in order to close loopholes that enable tax avoidance within the single market. the recommendations which i welcome in this report include setting up an eu public register of beneficial owners of companies and drawing up a tax havens blacklist. i also support a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers and action against the abuse of patent boxes. there were references in the non-legislative report to the planned common consolidated corporate tax base, which sinn féin opposes as we believe it will infringe on the tax sovereignty of member states. the report also failed to take a strong stance politically on the role of commission president juncker and others in the luxleaks scandal. for these reasons, sinn féin meps did not vote in favour of the report, but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this non-legislative report from the special committee on tax rulings (taxe2) established in the aftermath of the luxleaks revelations. sinn féin supports a global anti-tax avoidance approach under the auspices of the united nations. we support the oecd anti-base erosion and profit shifting (beps) action plan, but do not believe that it goes far enough. effective action can be taken at european level in order to close loopholes that enable tax avoidance within the single market. the recommendations which i welcome in this report include setting up an eu public register of beneficial owners of companies and drawing up a tax havens blacklist. i also support a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers and action against the abuse of patent boxes. there were references in the non-legislative report to the planned common consolidated corporate tax base, which sinn féin opposes as we believe it will infringe on the tax sovereignty of member states. the report also failed to take a strong stance politically on the role of commission president juncker and others in the luxleaks scandal. for these reasons, sinn féin meps did not vote in favour of the report, but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, as i do not agree with several of the proposals such as ccctb and calling on the oecd to start work on beps ii when many countries are still implementing beps i.
in writing. ‒ i agree in principle but i do not believe the eu should have competence in this area. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against some of the proposals in this report because i believe that we are gold-plating oecd proposals at eu level. the oecd is the international body tasked with ensuring tax fairness/justice. ireland is complying with oecd proposals and that should be our focus at european level. however, i was very happy to support many of the amendments, in particular the urgent call for better protection of whistle-blowers. it is unacceptable that people like antoine deltour, whose courage led to the luxleaks revelations and ultimately saved possibly billions in tax income, are prosecuted and sentenced while those responsible have to this day not faced any consequences.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because the provisions in the text go above and beyond the european parliament’s competences. corporate tax policies are primarily matters for member states to decide and we should respect member state sovereignty, particularly at such a critical moment for the eu. i believe we must continue to work within the eu and in the oecd to tackle aggressive tax planning. it is right that businesses must pay their fair share of tax. but that must not mean that we move to a common eu corporate tax rate or consolidation of the eu tax code.
in writing. ‒ i did not support this report, as tax is a matter of national competence and it is important to uphold the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. – while i welcomed many of the recommendations in this report, it also had certain limitations. tax avoidance is a problem with an international dimension, as demonstrated by luxleaks. multinational corporations exploit national differences, mismatches and cross-border loopholes in order to avoid paying their fair share of tax, so the response must be international. the recommendations that i welcome in this report include setting up an eu public register of beneficial owners of companies and drawing up a tax havens blacklist. a code of conduct for banks and tax advisers and action against the abuse of patent boxes are also recommendations i support. however, there were mentions in the non-legislative report of the planned common consolidated corporate tax base, which sinn féin is opposed to since we believe it will infringe the tax sovereignty of member states. the report, in my view, also failed to take a strong stance politically on the role of juncker and others in the luxleaks scandal. for these reasons, i did not vote in favour of the report, but abstained.
in writing. – the joint motion has a number of some positive elements, including highlighting the importance of links and coordination between cohesion policy and other eu policies and funds; stating that financial instruments must be complementary to grants; calling on the commission and member states to pay greater attention to the needs of smes; and criticising some aspects of budget restraints on horizon 2020. however, the jmr promotes some of the negative aspects still attached to eu funding, such as public-private partnerships and a call for strengthening the single market, and ignores many other concerns. my group tabled an alternative motion, which addresses some of these, issues including: the insufficient funding available under horizon 2020; the need to prevent cohesion policy and horizon 2020 from being used for military research; and problems caused by austerity policies and fiscal constraints on authorities preventing effective co-financing of funds. therefore, while there were some positives contained within this resolution, the failure to address the key concerns meant that i was obliged to abstain on this vote.
in writing. ‒ the joint motion has a number of some positive elements, including highlighting the importance of links and coordination between cohesion policy and other eu policies and funds; stating that financial instruments must be complementary to grants; calling on the commission and member states to pay greater attention to the needs of smes; and criticising some aspects of budget restraints on horizon 2020. however, the jmr promotes some of the negative aspects still attached to eu funding, such as public-private partnerships and a call for strengthening the single market, and ignores many other concerns. my group tabled an alternative motion, which addresses some of these, issues including: the insufficient funding available under horizon 2020; the need to prevent cohesion policy and horizon 2020 from being used for military research; and problems caused by austerity policies and fiscal constraints on authorities preventing effective co-financing of funds. while there were some positives contained within this resolution, the failure to address the key concerns meant i abstained on this vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ the strengthened links between cohesion policies and other eu policies, funding programmes and initiatives have come about because of the common strategic framework introduced by the common provisions regulation. this has, in turn made a substantial contribution to strengthening the single market and achieving europe 2020 strategy targets. much planning is needed on the part of the member states in order to identify and generate opportunities for citizens. i believe that the commission and the member states must pay constant attention to the needs of smes in the design and implementation of the european structural and investment funds and horizon 2020. i support the attestation in the report that the commission needs to establish a clear, aligned and coordinated approach for the post-2020 period regarding the future development of the esi funds and horizon 2020, with a special focus to administrative and auditing processes, proportionality and accountability.
in writing. – the joint motion has a number of some positive elements, including highlighting the importance of links and coordination between cohesion policy and other eu policies and funds; stating that financial instruments must be complementary to grants; calling on the commission and member states to pay greater attention to the needs of smes; and criticising some aspects of budget restraints on horizon 2020. however, the jmr promotes some of the negative aspects still attached to eu funding, such as public-private partnerships and a call for strengthening the single market, and ignores many other concerns. my group tabled an alternative motion, which addresses some of these, issues including: the insufficient funding available under horizon 2020; the need to prevent cohesion policy and horizon 2020 from being used for military research; and problems caused by austerity policies and fiscal constraints on authorities preventing effective co-financing of funds. therefore, while there were some positives contained within this resolution, the failure to address the key concerns meant that i was obliged to abstain on this vote.
in writing. – i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the commission work programme for 2017 presented by the liberals (alde), socialists (s&d) and christian democrats (epp). there were a small number of positive proposals in the resolution such as the call for the swift introduction of a pillar of social rights. however, the majority of the proposals aimed at deepening the pro-austerity economic governance framework, and the pro-integration agenda. the resolution accepts the european semester and the stability and growth pact rules, and calls for the completion of the economic and monetary union in the way outlined in the five presidents’ report. these proposals all aim to further deregulate financial markets and increase competition in the single market, without considering the negative impact this will have on working people and peripheral economies such as ireland’s. i also proposed an amendment to the joint motion calling for the north of ireland to be enabled to remain within the eu either by irish reunification or special arrangement. i voted in favour of an alternative resolution presented by gue/ngl which called for an alternative economic strategy based on redistributive policies that promote sustainable growth and social wellbeing.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the commission work programme for 2017 presented by the liberals (alde), socialists (s&d) and christian democrats (epp). there were a small number of positive proposals in the resolution such as the call for the swift introduction of a pillar of social rights. however, the majority of the proposals aimed at deepening the pro-austerity economic governance framework, and the pro-integration agenda. the resolution accepts the european semester and the stability and growth pact rules, and calls for the completion of the economic and monetary union in the way outlined in the five presidents’ report. these proposals all aim to further deregulate financial markets and increase competition in the single market, without considering the negative impact this will have on working people and peripheral economies such as the irish state’s. i also proposed an amendment to the joint motion calling for the north of ireland to be enabled to remain within the eu either by irish reunification or special arrangement. i voted in favour of an alternative resolution presented by gue/ngl which called for an alternative economic strategy based on redistributive policies that promote sustainable growth and social wellbeing.
in writing. ‒ i supported this overall but abstained on the areas of common security and defence policy/nato involvement, and on a mandatory common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this annual report that outlines the priorities for the commission work programme 2017. this report calls for more ambitious and effective european solutions in response to eu citizens’ concerns about the big challenges the eu faces, from the economy, to attacks on fundamental rights and increasing security threats. particularly in light of the referendum in britain, it is important that the work programme of the commission is more than a mere list of legislative proposals, it must offer the clear outlines of a modern european union that offers a real prospect to the people of each member state in europe.
in writing. – i voted against the joint motion for a resolution on the commission work programme for 2017 presented by the liberals (alde), socialists (s&d) and christian democrats (epp). there were a small number of positive proposals in the resolution such as the call for the swift introduction of a pillar of social rights. however, the majority of the proposals aimed at deepening the pro-austerity economic governance framework, and the pro-integration agenda. the resolution accepts the european semester and the stability and growth pact rules, and calls for the completion of the economic and monetary union in the way outlined in the five presidents’ report. these proposals all aim to further deregulate financial markets and increase competition in the single market, without considering the negative impact this will have on working people and peripheral economies such as ireland’s. i also proposed an amendment to the joint motion calling for the north of ireland to be enabled to remain within the eu either by irish reunification or special arrangement. i voted in favour of an alternative resolution presented by gue/ngl which called for an alternative economic strategy based on redistributive policies that promote sustainable growth and social wellbeing.
in writing. – even though there has been an international moratorium on commercial whaling since 1982 to protect whales from extinction there is a very narrow exception for strict scientific research permits which japan has been exploiting since this ban was brought in as a cover for its commercial whaling. in 2014 the international court of justice found that japan was in breach of international law with regards to its use of these scientific permits. japan halted its whaling briefly but has now resumed activity, most recently killing 333 minke whales, including pregnant females. this motion calls on japan to cease its whaling activities, especially as there is no scientific research need to capture and kill that many whales. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of the joint motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ even though there has been an international moratorium on commercial whaling since 1982 to protect whales from extinction there is a very narrow exception for strict scientific research permits which japan has been exploiting since this ban was brought in as a cover for its commercial whaling. in 2014 the international court of justice found that japan was in breach of international law with regards to its use of these scientific permits. japan halted its whaling briefly but has now resumed activity, most recently killing 333 minke whales, including pregnant females. this motion calls on japan to cease its whaling activities, especially as there is no scientific research need to capture and kill that many whales. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of the joint motion for resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for resolution calling on japan to end whaling.
in writing. ‒ i condemn in the strongest terms japan’s decision to resume its whaling activities and enterprises. i support the maintenance of the global moratorium on commercial whaling and a ban on international commercial trade in whale products. further, i urge the end of unjustified ‘scientific whaling’ and support the designation of substantial regions of ocean and seas as sanctuaries in which all whaling is indefinitely prohibited. i support the eu and its member states to do their utmost to resolve the issue through political dialogue.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this resolution due to the clear message it sends on whaling and i believe the ruling of the icj in 2014 on whaling should be maintained.
in writing. – even though there has been an international moratorium on commercial whaling since 1982 to protect whales from extinction there is a very narrow exception for strict scientific research permits which japan has been exploiting since this ban was brought in as a cover for its commercial whaling. in 2014 the international court of justice found that japan was in breach of international law with regards to its use of these scientific permits. japan halted its whaling briefly but has now resumed activity, most recently killing 333 minke whales, including pregnant females. this motion calls on japan to cease its whaling activities, especially as there is no scientific research need to capture and kill that many whales. it was for these reasons that i voted in favour of the joint motion for resolution.
in writing. – i abstained on these two resolutions objecting to an eu guarantee on european investment bank loans to belarus. the resolutions raised concerns over human rights abuses in belarus, and i certainly share these concerns. however, i supported an alternative resolution that does not object to the guarantee of loans on the grounds that belarus has taken steps to improve the situation, in particular by the release of all political prisoners in august last year, which is an important first step. (this alternative resolution was not voted on.) if this improvement in the human rights situation does not continue then i believe the european institutions should reassess the loans guarantee.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on these two resolutions objecting to an eu guarantee on european investment bank loans to belarus. the resolutions raised concerns over human rights abuses in belarus, and i certainly share these concerns. however, i supported an alternative resolution that does not object to the guarantee of loans on the grounds that belarus has taken steps to improve the situation, in particular by the release of all political prisoners in august last year, which is an important first step. (this alternative resolution was not voted on.) if this improvement in the human rights situation does not continue then i believe the european institutions should reassess the loans guarantee.
in writing. ‒ i supported this and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the above resolution. i support the report’s assertion the forthcoming general elections in belarus on 11 september 2016 represent an opportunity for belarus to end its long-standing practice of fraudulent elections, and constitutes a decisive test with which to measure the genuine will of the belarusian authorities to reconcile with their own citizens and to engage constructively with the eu. i also support the call to ensure that an eu guarantee to the european investment bank could not be used to finance the ostrovets nuclear power plant, and to assess whether such a guarantee is in compliance with the eu sanctions imposed on the russian federation.
in writing. – i abstained on these two resolutions objecting to an eu guarantee on european investment bank loans to belarus. the resolutions raised concerns over human rights abuses in belarus, and i certainly share these concerns. however, i supported an alternative resolution that does not object to the guarantee of loans on the grounds that belarus has taken steps to improve the situation, in particular by the release of all political prisoners in august last year, which is an important first step. (this alternative resolution was not voted on.) if this improvement in the human rights situation does not continue then i believe the european institutions should reassess the loans guarantee.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this objection. it was a motion of objection from the greens group to the commission’s delegated regulations on the criteria for setting the minimum requirement for own fund and eligible liabilities (mrel). the resolution says the opinion of the european banking authority dissenting to some of the final draft regulatory technical standards (rts). it was a technical resolution but the key point is that the rtss have excluded some important aspects for financial stability from the regulations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection. it was a motion of objection from the greens group to the commission’s delegated regulations on the criteria for setting the minimum requirement for own fund and eligible liabilities (mrel). the resolution says the opinion of the european banking authority dissenting to some of the final draft regulatory technical standards (rts). it was a technical resolution but the key point is that the rtss have excluded some important aspects for financial stability from the regulations.
in writing. ‒ i supported this and noted no objections.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this objection. it was a motion of objection from the greens group to the commission’s delegated regulations on the criteria for setting the minimum requirement for own fund and eligible liabilities (mrel). the resolution says the opinion of the european banking authority dissenting to some of the final draft regulatory technical standards (rts). it was a technical resolution but the key point is that the rtss have excluded some important aspects for financial stability from the regulations.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – and up wales! mr president, i support this objection. growth in the energy drinks market has boomed. children and teenagers are the most likely consumers. warning labels are being ignored whilst the industry’s code of practice, which is voluntary anyway, entails a commitment only not to market energy drinks to children under 12. we already know that the 10 to18—year-old age group is actually the one most likely to drink these products, and significantly 20% of under 10s have also confirmed that they drink them, so clearly the industry needs to work a bit harder to turn nice words into real action to stop their products being marketed at children. the sugar content in individual cans is unbelievable. a 250 ml can, which you can buy for eur 0.49, can contain up to 27 grams of sugar, meaning that a child would already be over the daily recommended limit for sugar by consuming just one of them. but what does the commission propose to do about these energy drinks? unbelievably, it wants to approve health claims on these high-caffeine, high-sugar energy drinks – drinks that have no nutritional benefit for children. the use of these so-called health claims gives kids and teenagers the wrong impression: they could legitimately believe that they will improve their attention in class or their performance in school. so, instead of pushing forward with health claims which help to promote these energy products, the commission must stop dragging its heels. it must come forward with the nutrient profiles which have already been agreed upon in legislation, instead of giving energy drinks a leg up in the market.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities is the first and only international treaty that the eu has ratified. three countries including my own, ireland, have still to ratify, but i hope we will do so by the end of the year. today we are discussing parliament’s response to the crpd concluding observations as to how we are implementing the convention, and in this context i want to thank our colleague, helga stevens, who has been an excellent rapporteur. so what is parliament saying? well, the process of drawing up the document was as important as its content, and in that context people with disabilities were involved in all committee meetings which were accessible. so the phrase ‘nothing about us without us’ was taken seriously by the rapporteur. we also see that the principle of stakeholder consultation is woven right throughout this report. the report takes a rights-based approach and in order to vindicate those rights we need adequate legislation. we already have anti-discrimination in the area of employment and occupation etc. but we need to find some solution to the fact that the anti-discrimination directive which would ensure equal treatment outside the labour market is stuck in council. our role here is as legislators, as is that of the commission, and in that context we have to ensure that all legislation is disability-proofed – both current and future regulation. in this context also i want to agree with my colleague richard howitt when he asks the commissioner to go above and beyond what is already in the pipeline. the rights of persons with disabilities must be mainstreamed in our work here; it must never be an add-on. once we have that mind-set, i believe we are on the right road. there are excellent proposals in this report but i shall just highlight three which i think are of crucial importance. first of all, support for independent living, secondly equal opportunities for employment, and thirdly equal access to the digital society. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – this is the first international treaty that the eu has ratified. i think the question was about future legislation and whether there is some way that people can vindicate their rights in court, because that is sometimes the only way that people can vindicate their rights. well, obviously, with any european legislation that is ratified by member states, people with disabilities or other persons can always vindicate those rights in court. for example, we saw a case some years back where a woman who had a child with disabilities in the uk was able to vindicate her rights as to, if you like, second—hand discrimination, in the ecj, because of the fact that she was treated unfairly because she had a child with disabilities. actually indirect discrimination is the proper term for that. so that is an example of how somebody was able to vindicate their rights in court because of the legislation that we had here in the parliament.
mr president, i have listened to the debate very carefully and there are three points i just want to mention. firstly, employment has been mentioned, and i think especially with flexibility in employment now, so much can be done over the internet, etc. and there are far more opportunities to employ people with a disability than ever before. secondly, education has been mentioned and obviously the figures of those going on to the third level are very small – somebody mentioned 28%. we should aim to double that as one of our 2020-2030 targets. thirdly, mr becker referred to sport and i agree completely with him: paralympics, special olympics, do fantastic work for people with disabilities. i had the honour, when i was president of the gaa, of hosting the special olympics in croke park a few years ago and the result of that is that we have such wonderful movements as the kerrys stars. my own organization has introduced hurling for people in wheelchairs – wheelchair-hurling – and i think these are initiatives that can help people with disabilities to get independent living and enjoy life the same as the rest of us.
madam president, the ni member korwin-mikke made a rather bizarre suggestion: he said the european union should be destroyed and yet at the same time the union he wants to destroy should buy a piece of land and create a state for albinos. my god, such logic! i have a different proposition: when you look at the problem here, it is based mainly on superstition. so if you get rid of the superstition you will be able to solve the problem. could we not in conjunction with united nations organize major educational conferences in malawi where we will be able to highlight to the people that their superstitions are groundless, baseless, and show them that albinos are the exact same as everyone else. and if that idea prevailed in these countries, i think that would be one way of ending this unfortunate situation.
it has been said that bahrain is a key partner for the european union economically, and especially in the area of energy and in fighting isis, and that is to be welcomed. but having said that, in the area of human rights it is ranked actually 163rd out of 180 countries in the reporters without barriers index. that tells the story. where we are concerned, the phrase in english ‘banging your head off a stone wall’ comes into being. we have mentioned this on numerous occasions but it has basically been ignored. so what do we do about it? i think the first author made a suggestion that we should have work group between the european union and bahrain, which would look at human rights and be able to discuss the cases of nabeel rajab, mohammed ramadan and sheikh ali salman, and the whole question of human rights, and especially freedom of speech and expression. that may be one way to make some progress.
the president, having voted in favour of the report by my group, has taken the law into his own hands. the recommendations made throughout this report are welcome. i support the calls on the council in the areas of peace and security, the fight against terrorism, migration and the various other areas covered throughout the report. the continued cooperation between the eu including the parliament and the un is a great example of the eu's commitment to multilateralism. i hope our institutions will continue to work together in such a positive way. i support the work of the un, especially in the areas of peace and security and human rights, and i hope they will welcome the recommendations of this report. i hope to see the work that the un does especially in finding lasting and peaceful solutions to ongoing conflicts, as well as strengthening peacekeeping operations continue and improve following the discussions and the debate at the 71st annual general assembly.
in writing. ‒ i supported this vote and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support parliament’s recommendation on the 71st session of the united nations general assembly. in particular, i support the recommendation to promote the work of unhcr in implementing its international mandate to protect refugees, and the report’s unequivocal condemnation of terrorism and its full support for actions aimed at the defeat and eradication of terrorist organisations, in particular, the so-called ‘isis/daesh’, which poses a clear threat to regional and international security.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i agree with the recommendations made within the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report with recommendations to the council concerning a number of human rights concerns such as peace in the middle east and north africa and strengthening the un’s ability to address conflict.
the president, once again, voted to approve the report and to make it part of the agenda. i'm not going to. and i took part in the debate here this morning. there was a debate in the house. i was talking to my friend becker about the importance of sport to help people who are hurting and i was surprised when commissioner mogherini responded to my friend's question and said that she would do everything she could to help, especially at the paralympic games next year, about the amount of money that people are going to give them and the support they need to give them. therefore sin is righteous and sin is a sin. august is also likely to be the first to see a party being held and taken by teachers in schools and special people without any children.
madam president, people in ireland have been waiting over nine years for ireland to ratify the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. on monday, 30 march 2007 ireland signed this convention but, nine years later, people with disabilities are still awaiting the ratification of this convention. the convention itself has a right—based approach, and people with disabilities in ireland have to be able to vindicate those rights. all other eu countries have now ratified this convention; we are the very last. i know that the independent alliance have included the convention in the programme for government, and i applaud this, but i am saying that we need action now. also, we have a situation in ireland where young persons with disabilities cannot access a european programme called the youth guarantee. i have lodged a complaint with the european commission, but right now we could change this in ireland and ensure that young people with disabilities who are on disability benefit or on disability allowance can access the youth guarantee the same as all other young people.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which incorporated proposals from my sinn féin colleague martina anderson who authored the associated opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) was ratified by the eu in 2010, covering a large range of rights for people with disabilities, ranging from the workplace to transport. accession means the eu is now scrutinised by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the cprd committee published its concluding observations on the initial report of the eu in august 2015, which require the commission to respond with a report within a year. the purpose of this own-initiative report is to ensure that parliament’s views are taken into account in the commission’s response (due in september). among other things, the report calls for the eu to ratify the optional protocol to the crpd, welcomes the proposal for a european accessibility act and calls for its swift adoption. it calls on the commission to review the european disability strategy and develop a new eu cprd strategy; and calls for a review of all eu legislation and funding programmes to ensure full compliance and implementation with the cprd.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which incorporated proposals from my sinn féin colleague martina anderson who authored the associated opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) was ratified by the eu in 2010, covering a large range of rights for people with disabilities, ranging from the workplace to transport. accession means the eu is now scrutinised by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the cprd committee published its concluding observations on the initial report of the eu in august 2015, which require the commission to respond with a report within a year. the purpose of this own-initiative report is to ensure that parliament’s views are taken into account in the commission’s response (due in september). among other things, the report calls for the eu to ratify the optional protocol to the crpd, welcomes the proposal for a european accessibility act and calls for its swift adoption. it calls on the commission to review the european disability strategy and develop a new eu cprd strategy; and calls for a review of all eu legislation and funding programmes to ensure full compliance and implementation with the cprd.
in writing. – i supported this report, on the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i believe the ratification of the treaty has the potential to benefit all eu citizens.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the convention in the eu.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which incorporated proposals from my sinn féin colleague martina anderson who authored the associated opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe). the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd) was ratified by the eu in 2010, covering a large range of rights for people with disabilities, ranging from the workplace to transport. accession means the eu is now scrutinised by the un committee on the rights of persons with disabilities. the cprd committee published its concluding observations on the initial report of the eu in august 2015, which require the commission to respond with a report within a year. the purpose of this own-initiative report is to ensure that parliament’s views are taken into account in the commission’s response (due in september). among other things, the report calls for the eu to ratify the optional protocol to the crpd, welcomes the proposal for a european accessibility act and calls for its swift adoption. it calls on the commission to review the european disability strategy and develop a new eu cprd strategy; and calls for a review of all eu legislation and funding programmes to ensure full compliance and implementation with the cprd.
madam president, i just want to say that obviously i voted with the group on this, there was no real controversy. but i have noticed in recent times that more and more people when shopping are looking at the label of what they buy. i think that is an educational process, so for that reason i have a slight difficulty with the title here – ‘permitted health claims made on foods’. the word ‘claims’ is not really what we should be looking at. it is either a fact or it is not, and it should not be a claim based on some survey or whatever the food producers are undertaking, and often these claims can be misleading. that is why it is so important that we are discussing this today, especially in relation to young children and indeed their parents who want to give them the best possible food. there are too many claims now that if you take this drink or that drink you are going to be faster and stronger and a great sports person, so they consume more than they should be consuming – and that is another issue, the actual volume. i think we have a lot of work to do, but this is a start and i support it.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which urges the commission to place restrictions on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents. the commission’s draft measure authorises health claims on caffeine relating to an increase in endurance performance, an increase in endurance capacity, increased alertness and improved concentration. there are concerns however about the adverse effects this could have on consumers, especially on young people. energy drinks have a high sugar and caffeine content and they are known to cause headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in young people who regularly consume them. moreover, growth in the energy-drinks market has boomed and children and teenagers are some of the biggest consumers. warning labels are being ignored whilst the industry’s code of practice, which is merely voluntary anyway, only commits it not to market energy drinks to children under 12. instead of pushing forward with health claims which help to promote these energy products, the commission must stop dragging its heels and come forward with the nutrient profiles which have already been agreed upon in legislation, instead of giving energy drinks a leg-up on the market.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which urges the commission to place restrictions on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents. the commission’s draft measure authorises health claims on caffeine relating to an increase in endurance performance, an increase in endurance capacity, increased alertness and improved concentration. there are concerns however about the adverse effects this could have on consumers, especially on young people. energy drinks have a high sugar and caffeine content and they are known to cause headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in young people who regularly consume them. growth in the energy-drinks market has boomed and children and teenagers are some of the biggest consumers. warning labels are being ignored whilst the industry’s code of practice, which is merely voluntary anyway, only commits it not to market energy drinks to children under 12. instead of pushing forward with health claims which help to promote these energy products, the commission must stop dragging its heels and come forward with the nutrient profiles which have already been agreed upon in legislation, instead of giving energy drinks a leg-up on the market.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion for a resolution and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. i believe that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the aim and content of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 on nutrition and health claims made on foods. further, there should be rules on the marketing of beverages with high caffeine content or foods with added caffeine to children and adolescents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as i had no objection to its contents.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which urges the commission to place restrictions on the marketing of energy drinks to children and adolescents. the commission’s draft measure authorises health claims on caffeine relating to an increase in endurance performance, an increase in endurance capacity, increased alertness and improved concentration. there are concerns however about the adverse effects this could have on consumers, especially on young people. energy drinks have a high sugar and caffeine content and they are known to cause headaches, sleep problems and behavioural problems in young people who regularly consume them. moreover, growth in the energy-drinks market has boomed and children and teenagers are some of the biggest consumers. warning labels are being ignored whilst the industry’s code of practice, which is merely voluntary anyway, only commits it not to market energy drinks to children under 12. instead of pushing forward with health claims which help to promote these energy products, the commission must stop dragging its heels and come forward with the nutrient profiles which have already been agreed upon in legislation, instead of giving energy drinks a leg-up on the market.
mr president, the commissioner referred to the data protection regulation, which will be coming into effect in two years. like my colleagues, mr voss and mr albrecht, i was involved in that, as the rapporteur for the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) for a four-year period, and it gives adequate protection for european citizens. then, of course, we had the situation with the us, with the safe harbour being shut down, and that has now been replaced by the privacy shield. while all the focus was on the us, we were perhaps negligent in our dealings with china. it has been pointed out that their data protection is certainly inadequate in terms of the protection of european citizens. at the same time, there are increasing flows of data to china – with the increasing use of chinese products, software, e-commerce, social networks, etcetera – so it is absolutely vital that we engage with the chinese and maybe try to get some type of extension to the privacy shield so that adequate protection is there for european citizens’ data.
the president, after hearing the debate, has been more than happy to see that when i came in, there was a great deal of confusion about the law and that this issue has not been resolved in the chamber. the commission should also be able to take account of the principles, particularly as regards civil and human rights, in the application of the rules laid down by the member states for the industrial relations of the various countries. as for my own country, i have contacted the industrial authorities many times and there are many problems with the rules in europe as islands and islands, and they have to go to a great many countries first to be able to take account of the things that are going on when we need to lay down the rules.
mr president, i am sorry i have only just come in because i was in a bus to strasbourg for over three hours – an indication i suppose of a waste of energy, in some respects. i would like to compliment the commissioner, who has done tremendous work in this whole area as we build towards a future european energy union. every aspect of it is very important. i was fortunate to be in paris at the cop 21 and i will be in morocco at the end of november. but implementation is crucial, and heating and cooling has a huge part to play. sometimes it is almost the silent solution that people are not aware of, but there is growing awareness of it now and i saw it in my own constituency recently, where people are clubbing together to ensure that they can put in heating and cooling systems. i think that, once we bring the public with us, they will be very pleased to be part of this whole process, because everybody now, i think, is clued in to the need to limit the damage being done by climate change and to play their part, and this is one aspect of it.
madam president, is the commission apolitical? well, recent statements by moscovici and vestager about the eur 13 billion simply waiting for ireland to collect have convinced me that it is not. they have said ireland can spend all of this money on hospitals and schools, yet they know that many other countries, including the us are already lining up to get their fair share of the cake, and that whatever share is left for ireland will be a fraction. yet they have dangled what i now call the ‘brussels bribe’ in front of our noses. our french commissioner rubbed our noses in it by expressing his surprise: the irish did not want this money in light of the crisis. this is the self-same commission that, as part of the troika, forced us to shoulder over 60% of the cost of the crisis and to pay unsecured bondholders, some of whom, i have no doubt, were in french banks. it reminds me of the brexiteers who promised eur 350 million per week to the uk national health service if people voted to leave. it is the worst kind of politics from the commission: promising what you cannot deliver.
madam president, the then fianna fáil government’s response to the financial and banking crisis in ireland included well-known pillars such as the burdening of private debt on ordinary families and the imposition of a savage austerity agenda, but it also included another pillar, the establishment of nama (the national asset management agency), set up as a ‘bad bank’ – although even those of us who opposed its creation failed to imagine just how bad it would become. it is now clear that nama’s sale in 2014 of its project eagle property portfolio in the north of ireland was based on bribery and insider trading. assets were sold to a us vulture fund at a shocking discount of 72% – billions below their value. all nama transactions must be suspended immediately. it is clear that the irish government cannot delay a commission of investigation much longer. irish taxpayers should not have to wait for another state aid investigation to get to the truth about how they have been fleeced.
mr president, i too supported this proposal sharing the rapporteur's belief that ris 3 strategies play an instrumental role in tackling the innovation gap that europe and its member states often face. and partly in reply to mr hannan’s question, there is no doubt that continued improvements and advances in the field of both regional and national legislation provide the key to the european union’s future in this domain. this report outlines the ways and means by which such deliberate evaluation, regulation and moderation would occur. from an irish perspective i can appreciative the regional focus that ris 3 may take incorporating regional and local authorities, thus encouraging multi-level involvement. such efforts are essential in promoting knowledge-based growth not only in well-developed areas, but also in less well-developed regions. we find ourselves at a pivotal stage where the evaluation of existing policies, as well as the coordination of future ones, may be facilitated.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this own initiative report, which covers the innovation objective of the europe 2020 strategy. each member state has adopted its own national targets in each of these areas (employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy). national and regional authorities across europe will design smart specialisation strategies in entrepreneurial discovery process, so that the european structural investment funds (esif) can be used more efficiently and synergies between different eu, national and regional policies, as well as public and private investments can be increased. there are some good points in the report, including a broad view of innovation, support for technological as well as practice-based and social innovation, and a monitoring and evaluation system. it also provides investment choices for regions with a limited number of priorities, particularly knowledge-based investments and/or clusters. however, the report focuses very heavily on using cohesion policies to meet the europe 2020 objectives, places a strong emphasis on public-private funding and financial mechanisms, and identifies competitiveness is the main overarching goal of the innovation strategy. for these reasons i could not support the report entirely, so abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cohesion policy and research and innovation strategies for smart specialisation (ris3) and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because within cohesion policy, the european regional development fund (erdf) established that regions were required to concentrate their investments within four priorities including r&d and innovation via smart specialisation strategies (ris3) in the 2014-2020 programming period. therefore, ris3 is an ex-ante condition for member states and eu regions for receiving european structural and investment funds (esif). i was happy that the report focused on the ris3 and its central role within cohesion policy and its contribution to the europe 2020 goals. moreover, the report highlights that the implementation of ris3 can only be successful if based on local and regional assets. in addition, the report asks for better synergies for growth and job creation between funding instruments, esif, efsi and horizon 2020. finally, the report acknowledges the importance of smart cities as catalysts for ris3 and presents the main lessons for the future of ris3.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that aims to bolster knowledge-based growth equally in developed and less-developed regions.
in writing. – i abstained on this own-initiative report, which covers the innovation objective of the europe 2020 strategy. each member state has adopted its own national targets in each of these areas (employment, innovation, education, social inclusion and climate/energy). national and regional authorities across europe will design smart specialisation strategies in entrepreneurial discovery process, so that the european structural investment funds (esif) can be used more efficiently and synergies between different eu, national and regional policies, as well as public and private investments can be increased. there are some good points in the report, including a broad view of innovation, support for technological as well as practice-based and social innovation, and a monitoring and evaluation system. it also provides investment choices for regions with a limited number of priorities, particularly knowledge-based investments and/or clusters. however, the report focuses very heavily on using cohesion policies to meet the europe 2020 objectives, places a strong emphasis on public-private funding and financial mechanisms, and identifies competitiveness is the main overarching goal of the innovation strategy. for these reasons i could not support the report entirely, so abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own initiative report focusing on improving the effective use of the interreg initiative (a community initiative in place since 1990) in order to develop european territorial cooperation (etc). the overarching objective of etc is to lessen the influence of borders in order to reduce disparities between regions, removing the remaining obstacles to investment and cooperation across borders. the report calls for increased funds to be directed towards etc, for cross-border innovation policy and research cooperation, and for a focus on projects that promote the adaptation of social and mobility infrastructure to demographic change and migratory flows.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on european territorial cooperation – best practices and innovative measures, and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i support the report of my colleague iskra mihaylova. i believe that european territorial cooperation should facilitate better regional connectivity, mobility and accessibility to services throughout member states. already it has helped to support research, innovation and the knowledge economy, adapting to climate change, and promoting sustainable transport and mobility through transnational approaches, and has contributed to enhancing institutional capacity of cities in the eu. equally, cross-border labour markets are becoming an increasingly important element of etc. i support the initiative of the luxembourg presidency, which proposed a specific legal tool for border regions, as well as the commission’s initiative of carrying out, by the end of 2016, an analysis of the barriers to cross-border cooperation that will look at solutions and examples of good practices. i agree that potential of the european territorial cooperation should be further developed, especially in areas such as the single market, the digital agenda, employment, mobility, energy, research, education, culture, health and the environment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which seeks to achieve territorial cohesion through programmes and projects with an important impact on border regions.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this own initiative report focusing on improving the effective use of the interreg initiative (a community initiative in place since 1990) in order to develop european territorial cooperation (etc). the overarching objective of etc is to lessen the influence of borders in order to reduce disparities between regions, removing the remaining obstacles to investment and cooperation across borders. the report calls for increased funds to be directed towards etc, for cross-border innovation policy and research cooperation, and for a focus on projects that promote the adaptation of social and mobility infrastructure to demographic change and migratory flows.
mr president, i listened very carefully to the debate here this morning on this issue, and i am pleased to support this report, in which this extremely important committee of inquiry has asked for support on all the measures needed for it to fulfil its mandate. it is important that parliament gives support to the committee to ensure they can hold hearings, bring the relevant people before them and get the right insights into the automotive-sector emissions scandal from last year. the hearings that the committee has held thus far have managed to provide some very interesting insights, as we heard this morning. i am pleased that it is working to get to the bottom of the scandal. ensuring that the rules we make at eu and national level are adhered to is vital, and the fitting of the so-called defeat devices by volkswagen is a clear breach of those rules. we must ensure that companies who cheat the system are found out and exposed, not least because they undermine our efforts to limit our carbon emissions and to ensure high-quality ambient air for our citizens.
mr president, i support the committee of inquiry in regard to the investigation of emissions in the automotive sector. this work of course is triggered by the volkswagen scandal, but the european parliament is not the only place in europe where volkswagen’s actions are being questioned. despite the fact that the volkswagen legal team walked out, a case is proceeding in castlebar court in county mayo in ireland on this issue. the case seeks to make public the original expert opinion and technical evidence vw used to develop a fix for the affected engines. the case brings to the fore the fact that there is no mechanism at european level for citizens to take a class action, and that is something we have to deal with. volkswagen settled on a figure of usd 15 billion in relation to a class action taken in the us. eu citizens deserve no less than us citizens when it comes to defending their rights. so i say well done to those who took the case, and those who decided to hear it in the castlebar court.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for resolution, which is the interim report of the committee of inquiry that was established in december to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector (volkswagen scandal). the inquiry is ongoing and the report does not include any conclusions or recommendations. it calls for ongoing support and cooperation for the inquiry by the commission and national governments, such as providing swifter access to requested documents.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the inquiry into emission measurements in the automotive sector and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this interim report, which documents the workings of the emis committee so far.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this motion for resolution, which is the interim report of the committee of inquiry that was established in december to investigate alleged contraventions or maladministration in the application of union law in relation to emission measurements in the automotive sector (volkswagen scandal). the inquiry is ongoing and the report does not include any conclusions or recommendations. it calls for ongoing support and cooperation for the inquiry by the commission and national governments, such as providing swifter access to requested documents.
in writing. ‒ this is a request to waive the parliamentary immunity of hungarian s&d mep istván ujhelyi. in hungarian law defamation is treated as a criminal offence, and criminal proceedings have been taken against the mep over comments he made on hungarian tv in april 2014 in which he opposed tamás sneider’s application for the post of vice-president of the hungarian parliament by saying about mr sneider that ‘he stated that he had a fight with a gipsy mafioso and hit him with… baseball bats’, and that ‘everyone else says he was the local boss of a mafia-style organisation, a skinhead organisation’. the comments were made before he was elected as mep but while he was a candidate. in november 2014 the hungarian court suspended the procedure and moved that the ep waive his immunity. istván ujhelyi believes the ep should defend his immunity because under hungarian law candidates for european elections have parliamentary immunity. but under european law only meps are covered, so the interpretation by juri is that immunity should be waived as he wasn’t acting in his capacity as mep when he made the comments. i believe this is the correct interpretation, so voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of istván ujhelyi and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i support the waiver of the immunity of istván ujhelyi. considering that mr. ujhelyi made the defamatory states at a time when he was not a member of the european parliament, it must be noted that when making the statements in question, istván ujhelyi was not acting in the performance of his duties as member of the european parliament. the fact that under national hungarian legislation candidates standing in elections to the national parliament or to the european parliament may enjoy parliamentary immunity in accordance with national procedures does not alter this conclusion for the purposes of the procedure in the european parliament.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. – this is a request to waive the parliamentary immunity of hungarian s&d mep istván ujhelyi. in hungarian law defamation is treated as a criminal offence, and criminal proceedings have been taken against the mep over comments he made on hungarian tv in april 2014 in which he opposed tamás sneider’s application for the post of vice-president of the hungarian parliament by saying about mr sneider that ‘he stated that he had a fight with a gipsy mafioso and hit him with… baseball bats’, and that ‘everyone else says he was the local boss of a mafia-style organisation, a skinhead organisation’. the comments were made before he was elected as mep but while he was a candidate. in november 2014 the hungarian court suspended the procedure and moved that the ep waive his immunity. istván ujhelyi believes the ep should defend his immunity because under hungarian law candidates for european elections have parliamentary immunity. but under european law only meps are covered, so the interpretation by juri is that immunity should be waived as he wasn’t acting in his capacity as mep when he made the comments. i believe this is the correct interpretation, so voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of defending the immunity of rosario crocetta. this immunity procedure is a rejection of the request to waive the immunity of former italian s&d rosario crocetta who is subject to criminal proceedings for alleged defamation. in 2012 crocetta made several comments relating to organised crime involvement in public procurement procedures in relation to environmental policies, including saying the certain waste-to-energy plants were controlled by the mafia. he was mep at the time, and a member of envi and first vice-chair of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. juri’s position is that there is a direct and obvious link between his activities as an mep and the comments and his immunity should be defended. i support the committee’s position.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for defence of the parliamentary immunity of rosario crocetta and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i would defend the immunity and privileges of rosario crocetta. considering the facts of the case, it is clear that the statements in question have direct and obvious connection with mr crocetta’s parliamentary activities. it is uncontested that, when he was a member of the european parliament and, in particular at the time of the statements in question, mr crocetta was very much involved, at a political level, in the fight against organised crime and its influence on politics and economy, especially as regards public procurement in the field of environmental policy. therefore i support his immunity as a member.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. – i voted in favour of defending the immunity of rosario crocetta. this immunity procedure is a rejection of the request to waive the immunity of former italian s&d rosario crocetta who is subject to criminal proceedings for alleged defamation. in 2012 crocetta made several comments relating to organised crime involvement in public procurement procedures in relation to environmental policies, including saying the certain waste-to-energy plants were controlled by the mafia. he was mep at the time, and a member of envi and first vice-chair of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. juri’s position is that there is a direct and obvious link between his activities as an mep and the comments and his immunity should be defended. i support the committee’s position.
in writing. ‒ this relates to an mep from the greek communist party, sotirios zarianopoulos. the greek authorities are proposing to prosecute him jointly with others in his capacity as a former member of thessaloniki city council for failing to comply with legal obligations. the case concerns the issuing in 2011 by thessaloniki city council of allegedly illegal permits to use public property for the purpose of setting up outside seating areas on pavements. zarianopoulos himself informed meps that he would vote in favour of the report that will result in the waiving of his immunity. because the proposed proceedings do not concern opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of the duties as mep, and the proceedings involve all those who were members of the city council at the time, i voted in favour of waiving immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for waiver of the parliamentary immunity of sotirios zarianopoulos and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i support this waiver of immunity. i believe that there is no reason to suspect that the intention underlying the proposed proceedings is to cause political damage to the mep concerned. it is evident that the proposed proceedings do not concern opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of the duties of the member of the european parliament in question and therefore a waiver is appropriate.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. – this relates to an mep from the greek communist party, sotirios zarianopoulos. the greek authorities are proposing to prosecute him jointly with others in his capacity as a former member of thessaloniki city council for failing to comply with legal obligations. the case concerns the issuing in 2011 by thessaloniki city council of allegedly illegal permits to use public property for the purpose of setting up outside seating areas on pavements. zarianopoulos himself informed meps that he would vote in favour of the report that will result in the waiving of his immunity. because the proposed proceedings do not concern opinions expressed or votes cast in the performance of the duties as mep, and the proceedings involve all those who were members of the city council at the time, i voted in favour of waiving immunity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which will slightly amend quotas on trade with china following the accession of croatia to the eu without affecting the irish economy. under the wto rules, the eu has to negotiate with its trade partners new conditions due to the accession of croatia to the eu. the commission negotiated new conditions on industrial goods – slightly lower eu tariffs on footwear and air-conditioners. on agriculture quotas, the commission will propose a regulation to increase the tonnage allocation for garlic and mushrooms from china (while maintaining the same percentage).
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu-china agreement relating to the accession of croatia and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this eu-china agreement. the people’s republic of china has the right to have its previous trading rights restored, following the slight erosion due to the enlargement of the eu customs union with croatian eu accession. the purpose of a customs union or of a free-trade area should be to facilitate trade between the constituent territories and not to raise barriers to the trade of other contracting parties with such territories. this compensatory agreement can therefore be seen as yet another sign of the eu’s attachment to the multilateral rules-based trading regime, with the world trade organisation at its centre.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of modernising eu concessions with china to take into account the most recent enlargement to included croatia in the union.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which will slightly amend quotas on trade with china following the accession of croatia to the eu without affecting the irish economy. under the wto rules, the eu has to negotiate with its trade partners new conditions due to the accession of croatia to the eu. the commission negotiated new conditions on industrial goods – slightly lower eu tariffs on footwear and air-conditioners. on agriculture quotas, the commission will propose a regulation to increase the tonnage allocation for garlic and mushrooms from china (while maintaining the same percentage).
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. under the wto rules, the eu has to negotiate with its partners new conditions due to the accession of croatia to the eu. the commission proposes modifications related to tariff rate quotas on bovine meat. the commission is also preparing an implementing regulation regarding several tariff rate quotas. the amendment to the agreement is mainly technical, but because there is a possibility that the modification of the tariff rate quotas on beef may have a small effect on european farmers, including in ireland, i did not vote in favour but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu-uruguay agreement relating to the accession of croatia and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this eu-uruguay agreement relating to the accession of croatia. with the accession of the republic of croatia, the eu enlarged its customs union and was therefore required under wto rules to enter into negotiations with the eastern republic of uruguay regarding the tariff schedule of croatia in order to eventually agree on a compensatory adjustment as the eu’s external tariff regime results in an increase of tariffs. the eu will now incorporate its schedule for the customs territory of the eu 28 that of the eu 27 with modifications related to tariff rate quotas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ with the accession of croatia, the eu’s customs union grew and consequently the eu was required to negotiate the tariff schedule to incorporate croatia. i voted in favour of the results of the negotiations between the eu and uruguay.
in writing. – i abstained on this report. under the wto rules, the eu has to negotiate with its partners new conditions due to the accession of croatia to the eu. the commission proposes modifications related to tariff rate quotas on bovine meat. the commission is also preparing an implementing regulation regarding several tariff rate quotas. the amendment to the agreement is mainly technical, but because there is a possibility that the modification of the tariff rate quotas on beef may have a small effect on european farmers, including in ireland, i did not vote in favour but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i wish to respect the privacy of the secret ballot and not disclose my voting intentions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i wish to respect the privacy of the secret ballot and not disclose my voting intentions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i wish to respect the privacy of the secret ballot and not disclose my voting intentions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the commission was required to adapt the decision making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts as a consequence of the adoption of the lisbon treaty. part of this includes amending the regulation on community statistics.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries (delegated and implementing powers) and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures. in the light of the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty and by the subsequent adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 (on implementing acts), the commission was required to adapt the decision making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts. in this context, the commission amended regulation (ec) no 471/2009 on community statistics which is the only legislative act in the field of the common commercial policy referring to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of updating existing legislation on community statistics relating to external trade with non-member countries to the new institutional context of delegating and implementing acts.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. the commission was required to adapt the decision making rules in trade policy to the new regime of delegated and implementing acts as a consequence of the adoption of the lisbon treaty. part of this includes amending the regulation on community statistics.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. the objective of this regulation is to transform the voluntary basis regarding the collection of data for natural gas and electricity prices charged to household end-users into an obligatory one. statistics must then be provided by member states to eurostat. the benefits of collecting the data regarding the natural gas and electricity prices that consumers pay in different member states include that it will enhance transparency and may help to protect households from profiteering. however, the report also states that its aim is to develop a fully-integrated internal energy market. sinn féin believes that more transparency and obligatory reporting in the energy market is certainly required, but we have concerns about the energy union and the impact of a ‘fully integrated internal energy market’, so for this reason abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the statistics on natural gas and electricity prices and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation that will make it mandatory for the national regulatory authority or government to submit a cost breakdown methodology on the natural gas and electricity prices in their member state, to ensure the correct and fair comparability of prices between countries. until now, the european commission has been collecting data on natural gas and electricity prices on a voluntary basis from member states. however as problems in the data collection have been increasingly reported by several member states, this regulation is being brought in to law to transform the voluntary basis of collection into an obligatory one. i believe the introduction of this regulation will help prevent any further problems in the quality of data collection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of collecting data in order to be able to compare prices of natural gas and electricity in other member states. this will ensure high quality price data.
in writing. – i abstained on this report. the objective of this regulation is to transform the voluntary basis regarding the collection of data for natural gas and electricity prices charged to household end-users into an obligatory one. statistics must then be provided by member states to eurostat. the benefits of collecting the data regarding the natural gas and electricity prices that consumers pay in different member states include that it will enhance transparency and may help to protect households from profiteering. however, the report also states that its aim is to develop a fully-integrated internal energy market. sinn féin believes that more transparency and obligatory reporting in the energy market is certainly required, but we have concerns about the energy union and the impact of a ‘fully integrated internal energy market’, so for this reason abstained.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the president, once again giving his support to this report, has asked the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the werner langen. what are you doing? i think that putting in place a single market for electricity in the eu can bring significant benefits in terms of supply security and price, but it is important that we get it right. with the points outlined in this report, i think we are heading in the right direction and i look forward to the legislative proposals later in the year. a key point in these discussions will be the ways in which the new electricity market design can help us meet our climate goals. the promotion of renewables will be crucial, and i think that any single market for electricity will need to ensure a favourable climate for investment in renewables and therefore send the right signals. additionally, by ensuring that prices will reflect actual electricity supply and demand, we will allow for stronger price signals in the wholesale market and therefore encourage investment in new capacity and flexibility.
in writing. ‒ this own initiative report focuses on the design of a new eu electricity market in light of the aim to double the percentage of electricity produced by renewables from 25% to 50% of the total by 2030. it proposes only market-based solutions to increase capacity such as incentives and rewards. gue/ngl’s position in favour of a focus on public support for developing renewable energy, access to the grid, the right to self-generation, decentralised solutions, and energy efficiency measures, etc. have been largely ignored. the report proposes that change be based mainly on market rules whilst being ‘technology-neutral’ i.e. not favouring one form of energy over another – which is the opposite of what is required as we need a strong intervention by member states in favour of developing renewables. i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report, towards a new energy market design, and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution ‘towards a new energy market design’ for a number of reasons. firstly, in order for europe to meet its 2030 climate goals, there needs to be a transformation in the way the energy market in europe operates. this means that we need an improved integrated energy market to achieve a secure, affordable, environmentally-sound energy supply and security. we need to reduce our dependency on oil and gas imports and incentivise development of new technologies, particularly low-carbon generating facilities. this report sets out the best way to achieve a properly functioning eu energy market with market led approaches. that is why i supported the rapporteur’s call to phase-out subsidies for mature renewable technologies and i voted against an amendment which called for continuing financial support from governments to certain renewable technologies at the expense of other possibly more innovative technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which looks at completing the internal energy market through the efficient use of energy storage capacities, network expansions and the efficient use of interconnectors.
in writing. – this own initiative report focuses on the design of a new eu electricity market in light of the aim to double the percentage of electricity produced by renewables from 25% to 50% of the total by 2030. it proposes only market-based solutions to increase capacity such as incentives and rewards. gue/ngl’s position in favour of a focus on public support for developing renewable energy, access to the grid, the right to self-generation, decentralised solutions, and energy efficiency measures, etc. have been largely ignored. the report proposes that change be based mainly on market rules whilst being ‘technology-neutral’ i.e. not favouring one form of energy over another – which is the opposite of what is required as we need a strong intervention by member states in favour of developing renewables. i voted against the report.
i believe this to be a good report, and the first step towards putting in place long-term objectives to decarbonise the heating and cooling sector. almost half of the eu’s final energy demand is for heating and cooling, and so i think that this initiative is timely and i believe that our work on heating and cooling should go hand in hand with our work on renewables, energy efficiency, buildings and energy security. for me, technology development is a vitally important part of the strategy. when we consider the energy security situation in europe, and our over-dependence on russian gas, we should remember that this dependence is largely to do with our heat supply. for this reason, it is important not only that we look to diversify our sources of natural gas, which is crucial, but also that we explore ways to support and accelerate the increased deployment of renewable heat technologies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own initiative report which makes proposals to direct the implementation of the commission’s strategy on the energy union launched in february this year. part of the commission’s proposal was its first ever strategy for heating and cooling to tackle the massive use of fossil fuels. this is a progressive report that emphasises the need to include specific measures for heating and cooling in the upcoming revisions of the energy efficiency directive, the res directive and the energy performance of building directive, and the new ‘energy market design’. it suggests that high-energy efficiency measures, high-performance insulation, the use of renewable sources and recovered heat are the fundamental priorities for eu’s heating and cooling strategy.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on an eu strategy on heating and cooling and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this own initiative report on an eu strategy on heating and cooling and was very happy that it got the majority support of the parliament. the report sets out key proposals for the commission to reduce the use of energy in buildings. for example, the report highlights the need for greater improvement in efficiency standards and renovation of old homes. it is striking that private and public buildings account for 40% of final energy use and 36% of co2 emissions in the eu, with a huge 85% of the energy consumption of buildings used for space and water heating alone. i support the rapporteur in their call for further energy renovations which will lead not only to job creation and investment but it will also help to cut co2 emissions in the eu. we must do much more to renovate existing housing stocks, which often have very low energy efficiency standards. if we are to achieve this, it is important the european commission presents an ambitious review of energy efficiency legislation in the coming weeks and takes into consideration the proposals made in this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ heating and cooling represents 50% of the eu’s energy consumption. i support this report that aims to include more renewable energy sources and to encourage reuse of waste heat.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this own initiative report which makes proposals to direct the implementation of the commission’s strategy on the energy union launched in february this year. part of the commission’s proposal was its first ever strategy for heating and cooling to tackle the massive use of fossil fuels. this is a progressive report that emphasises the need to include specific measures for heating and cooling in the upcoming revisions of the energy efficiency directive, the res directive and the energy performance of building directive, and the new ‘energy market design’. it suggests that high-energy efficiency measures, high-performance insulation, the use of renewable sources and recovered heat are the fundamental priorities for eu’s heating and cooling strategy.
mr president, it is often said that smes constitute the keystone in the economies of our member states, and thus, in initiatives such as the cohesion policy and the euro 2020 strategy, careful consideration has been given to the role of smes in the economy, both now and in the future. as this report highlights the key economic concerns and priorities of the european union, i support its proposals in the sphere of resource efficiency, growth and, above all, competitiveness, as well as the reflections on the relation to regional policy. the report acknowledges the impact that the economic downturn had on smes throughout europe, acknowledging the stifling of demand which was experienced. this is something i understand, given the obstacles that the irish economy has faced: thankfully we are now recovering. the recommendation for more and more efficient financial instruments is a good one, and i think that, if we implement these measures in a balanced way, we will ensure that smes can continue to innovate, compete and grow, and that, in conjunction with the digital single market, smes can thrive into the future.
in writing. ‒ this implementation report calls for simplified and easier access to credit for smes. it emphasises that each esi fund (esf, erdf, cohesion fund, efmm and eardf) supports 11 thematic objectives and the thematic objective 3 is about ‘enhancing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, the agricultural sector and the fisheries and aquaculture sector’ and the related investment priorities for the erdf. while it was a generally good report, it also made positive reference to the capital markets union aimed at developing non-bank lending (shadow banking), which sinn féin strongly opposes. because of this call being included, i did not vote in favour of the overall report but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on enhancing the competitiveness of smes and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of this report. there are 23 million smes in the eu, which account for around 99% of all businesses, they are responsible for providing over 100 million jobs, which generate two out of every three private sector jobs, and they maintain double the employment growth rate of larger enterprises. smes are pivotal to the eu economy, however in order to maintain and further enhance their fundamental contribution to economic growth, social cohesion, innovation and high-quality job creation we need simplified and less regulated access to credit, particularly with regard to microenterprises and start-ups and the regions in which they operate. i hope that the information provided by this report will highlight to the commission the need to make greater use of esi funds to help smes seize new trading opportunities by supporting them more to address adjustment costs and the negative impacts of increased international competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that introduces thematic concentration in cohesion policy programming to encourage growth enhancement.
in writing. – this implementation report calls for simplified and easier access to credit for smes. it emphasises that each esi fund (esf, erdf, cohesion fund, efmm and eardf) supports 11 thematic objectives and the thematic objective 3 is about ‘enhancing the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, the agricultural sector and the fisheries and aquaculture sector’ and the related investment priorities for the erdf. while it was a generally good report, it also made positive reference to the capital markets union aimed at developing non-bank lending (shadow banking), which sinn féin strongly opposes. because of this call being included, i did not vote in favour of the overall report but abstained.
a uachtaráin, that is an an mínniú votála deireanach uaimse inniu. it is the last time that i will vote. mr president, i would like to i commend this report's thorough consideration of the alpine region, as a marked step towards the achievement of europe's goals of territorial cooperation and cohesion. given careful consideration of the effects of eu strategies on the environment as well as on economic and social development in these areas, we can build on the recommendations of this report. thus we are in a position to address much more effectively the challenges faced by macro regions while establishing and improving on the framework within which new and existing strategies will operate. i particularly support the recognition of the impact of the eu strategy for the alpine region (eusalp) across the eu and not just at a regional level, as we have seen the increasing development of synergies between different institutions and agencies and indeed national and regional policies. while respecting the principle of subsidiarity, i would also hope to see further improvements in the areas of biodiversity, transport and tourism from this point forward.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is the fourth eu macro-regional strategy. eusalp covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are member states (italy, france, slovenia, austria and germany). the other two countries are switzerland and liechtenstein. eusalp is a vehicle for strategic investment that will benefit the region as a whole. the report tackles various important issues regarding the eusalp: multi-level governance, investments, jobs, environment, climate change and mobility.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on an eu strategy for the alpine region and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i, along with the majority of my colleagues, supported this own initiative report on an eu strategy for the alpine region which follows a number of similar macro-regional strategy reports for the baltic sea region and the eu strategy for the danube region. the report outlines a number of key areas where greater regional cooperation can be initiated with the goal of bringing countries, once in conflict, closer together while simultaneously growing the regional economy. likewise, i was pleased that the rapporteur called for the use of the european fund for strategic investment to be utilised in joined up macro strategies. this fund was specifically designed to reinvigorate investment in national and local economies and to incentivise further private investment. using the fund, in conjunction with the eib, could greatly help to create long term investment in such regional areas. although i was supportive of the role that efsi and private investment can play in a regional area, i did however support an amendment which called for the protection of water resources as i believe water is a public commodity and should not be privatised. unfortunately this amendment did not pass.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which supports synergies within macro regions and the diversification of tourism. this report encourages innovation while reserving forms of traditional economic activity.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, which is the fourth eu macro-regional strategy. eusalp covers 48 regions in seven countries, five of which are member states (italy, france, slovenia, austria and germany). the other two countries are switzerland and liechtenstein. eusalp is a vehicle for strategic investment that will benefit the region as a whole. the report tackles various important issues regarding the eusalp: multi-level governance, investments, jobs, environment, climate change and mobility.
in writing. ‒ this own-initiative report aims to address existing failures in the use of the eu’s ‘emergency trust fund for stability and addressing root causes of irregular migration and displaced persons in africa’ made up of eu financing and contributions from member states. it highlights the fact that only 4.5% of the pledged funds have actually been received. but while it states it aims to promote legal migration and asylum, as well as addressing causes of displacement such as the arms trade, the trust fund is being used as another instrument to re-allocate and use development funds for control and management of migration flows without any development benefit. the report reinforces this as well as the general ‘fortress europe’ set-up. due to these negative elements in the report i could not vote in favour of the overall report but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the eu trust fund for africa: the implications for development and humanitarian aid and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i am happy to support this motion for resolution. the eu trust fund for africa aims to address the root causes of destabilisation, forced displacement and irregular migration by promoting resilience, economic opportunities, equal opportunities, security and development. it is regrettable, however, that to date member states’ contributions have remained too low, amounting only to a small fraction of the union contribution and are thus far from reaching the official commitment. member states should honour their pledges and to rapidly and effectively match the union contribution in order to allow the trust fund to develop its full potential. i also believe that the eu must show greater coherence when acting in the field of international cooperation for development in the african region. these funds should reflect the principles of policy coherence for sustainable development and complementarity between all development stakeholders, and should avoid any contradiction between development aims and security, humanitarian and migration policies. the trust funds should contribute to achieving the long-term objectives of ensuring peace and strengthening governance in recipient countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i support this report, which looks for more transparency and accountability for the eu trust fund for africa, which addresses the root causes of destabilisation, displacement and irregular migration.
in writing. – this own initiative report aims to address existing failures in the use of the eu’s ‘emergency trust fund for stability and addressing root causes of irregular migration and displaced persons in africa’ made up of eu financing and contributions from member states. it highlights the fact that only 4.5% of the pledged funds have actually been received. but while it states it aims to promote legal migration and asylum, as well as addressing causes of displacement such as the arms trade, the trust fund is being used as another instrument to re-allocate and use development funds for control and management of migration flows without any development benefit. the report reinforces this as well as the general ‘fortress europe’ set-up. due to these negative elements in the report i could not vote in favour of the overall report but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report prepared jointly by empl and femm, which calls for the commission and member states to implement measures such as ensuring affordable childcare, and paid leave including maternity, paternity, parental and carers’ leave in order to address the exclusion of women from the labour force due to caring responsibilities. on the issue of non-transferability of parental leave, sinn féin’s position is in favour of non-transferability (i.e. it can’t be transferred from the father to the mother) as it is proven to benefit the position of women in the workforce.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on work-life balance and also supported the inclusion of all references concerning rights for the lgbti community and same-sex couples.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on creating labour market conditions favourable for work-life balance which is parliament’s response to the commission’s withdrawal of the maternity leave directive and its replacement following the publication of the roadmap to address challenges in work/life balance for working families. in a world where the line between work and private life is increasingly blurred it is important workers and their families achieve a satisfactory balance. i fully agree it is crucial to have a lifecycle approach in work-life balance policies to ensure everyone is supported at different moments throughout their life in order to actively participate in the labour market and in society as a whole. that’s why i particularly welcome the call for a paternity leave directive with compulsory two—week paid leave and a carers’ leave directive which supplements the provision of professional care, enables workers to care for dependants and offers the carer adequate remuneration and social protection. this is crucial given that 80% of care needs are provided by informal carers in the eu and 3.3 million europeans aged between 15 and 34 have had to give up full-time work because they lack care facilities for dependent children or older relatives.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which acknowledges the importance of work life balance, between work life and private life.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this own-initiative report prepared jointly by empl and femm, which calls for the commission and member states to implement measures such as ensuring affordable childcare, and paid leave including maternity, paternity, parental and carers’ leave in order to address the exclusion of women from the labour force due to caring responsibilities. on the issue of non-transferability of parental leave, sinn féin’s position is in favour of non-transferability (i.e. it can’t be transferred from the father to the mother) as it is proven to benefit the position of women in the workforce.
in writing. ‒ this report tried to remedy an issue that has been ongoing since the swiss ‘against mass immigration’ referendum in 2014 and the introduction of a new article 121a into the constitution, which states that switzerland regulates immigration, that residence permit restrictions and quotas may be introduced on the basis of switzerland’s overall economic interests, and that businesses are obliged to give swiss nationals priority when hiring staff. according to the eu, article 121a is not compatible with the agreement on the free movement of persons. this means that a solution needs to be found. the protocol agreed provides for a seven-year transition period in which switzerland and croatia can maintain limits on the emigration of their citizens to each other’s countries. the quotas are progressive in that switzerland may gradually open its borders year by year to croatian workers. i voted in favour of the report from a technical point of view in order to ensure that croatia will be included in the bilateral agreement between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the protocol to the eu-switzerland agreement on the free movement of persons (accession of croatia) and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol to the agreement between the eu and switzerland in relation to the free movement of people following the accession of croatia. this agreement gives the citizens of both the eu and switzerland the right to enter, live and work in the respective territories by mutually abolishing the majority of restrictions. however to do so an employment or service contract or sufficient financial resources are necessary. this agreement does not automatically extend to new member states once they join and so must be amended by a protocol. there is a transitional period of seven years, with the possibility of a further three years, from the time the protocol comes into force in which access for croatian citizens can be limited but this period also applies to swiss citizens entering croatia. both croatia and switzerland will benefit from access to a larger internal market to which free movement is integral.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol as it ensures the full participation of croatia within the european union following its accession in 2013.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which extends the free movement of persons between switzerland and the eu to croatia as a new member of the european union.
in writing. – this report tried to remedy an issue that has been ongoing since the swiss ‘against mass immigration’ referendum in 2014 and the introduction of a new article, 121a, into its constitution, which states that switzerland regulates immigration, that residence permit restrictions and quotas may be introduced based on switzerland’s overall economic interests, and that businesses are obliged to give swiss nationals priority when hiring staff. according to the eu, article 121a is not compatible with the agreement on the free movement of persons. this means that a solution needs to be found. the protocol agreed provides for a seven—year transition period in which switzerland and croatia can maintain limits on the emigration of their citizens to each other’s countries. the quotas are progressive so that switzerland may gradually open its borders year by year to croatian workers. i voted in favour of the report from a technical point of view in order to ensure croatia will be included in the bilateral agreement between the eu and switzerland.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit (tss) for growth and employment was a meeting with the council presidency, the commission and the social partners (10 trade unionists and 10 business). it took place at least once a year before the spring european council. the whole idea was to have an exchange of views on employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs before the council meeting. parliament was not mentioned but the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) was always invited to the summit. this vote was to give consent to the council recommendation and re-ratify the decision. parliament has adopted a report calling for the empl chair to be formally invited. this report was adopted after the council decision and is not reflected in that draft decision. the empl committee and its chair were not happy about the decision and only supported the draft decision once a letter from the presidency of the council and the president of the commission outlined that the empl chair would be invited to all tsss. after that was done the committee gave consent. my gue/ngl colleague thomas handel, chair of the empl committee, supported the decision. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the tripartite social summit for growth and employment and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ the tripartite social summit for growth and employment (tss) was set up in 2003 and formalised the practice of holding high—level, informal meetings in the framework of the european employment strategy, and subsequently the lisbon strategy. the commission proposed the formalisation to institutionalise the practice of high-level consultation between the eu institutions and eu social partners. the tss has been a separate event from the european council meetings ever since and has broadly fulfilled its aim of facilitating high—level exchange of views between the commission, the eu presidency and the eu social partners on employment and social aspects of the lisbon strategy. following the creation of the role of president of the european council by the lisbon treaty, the decision establishing the tss needs to be revised to transfer the role and responsibilities of the rotating presidency of the council to the newly created role of president of the european council. in addition, the overall policy framework needs to be revised, replacing the lisbon strategy with the europe 2020 strategy and specifying how the tss for growth and employment contributes to the overall governance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this protocol because it revised the procedure of the summit to bring it in line with the changes introduced in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. ‒ i voted to update this legal framework in keeping with the lisbon treaty.
in writing. – the tripartite social summit (tss) for growth and employment was a meeting with the council presidency, the commission and the social partners (10 trade unionists and 10 business). it took place at least once a year before the spring european council. the whole idea was to have an exchange of views on employment, social policy, health and consumer affairs before the council meeting. parliament was not mentioned but the chair of the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) was always invited to the summit. this vote was to give consent to the council recommendation and re-ratify the decision. parliament has adopted a report calling for the empl chair to be formally invited. this report was adopted after the council decision and is not reflected in that draft decision. the empl committee and the chair were not happy about the decision and only supported the draft decision once a letter from the presidency of the council and the president of the commission outlined that the empl chair would be invited to all tsss. after that was done the committee gave consent. my gue/ngl colleague thomas handel, chair of the empl committee, supported the decision. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on technical requirements for inland waterway vessels and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report along with the majority of my colleagues. the proposal seeks to adopt a uniform set of technical standards for inland navigation vessels that would: (i) provide more legal certainty; (ii) ensure that technical adaptations can be introduced within a reasonable time; (iii) ensure that high safety standards on all eu inland waterways are maintained; and (v) promote innovation in the sector, all of which would greatly benefit individuals who use waterways, especially workers. in addition to that, harmonisation of this regulation across the eu will help prevent distortions of competition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it ensures that safety standards on eu waterways are maintained while also supporting innovation in the inland waterway sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that encouraged technical progress with high safety standards for inland navigation.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the eu signed an economic partnership agreement (epa) in june 2016 with the southern african development community (sadc) economic partnership agreements (epa) group, which includes botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa and swaziland. epas, created in 2000, are trade agreements that were meant to safeguard african caribbean and pacific (acp) countries’ preferential access to eu markets. epas are changing this preferential access from non-reciprocal to reciprocal access, meaning that acp countries are required to open their markets to eu imports and, furthermore, require liberalisation in other areas such as investment and services. this will have serious negative consequences for local populations in the sadc and the strong opposition from these states and civil society mean negotiations have lasted more than a decade.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the economic partnership agreement between the eu and the sadc epa states and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i support the economic partnership agreement between the european union and the sadc epa. i agree that this agreement has the potential to bring positive change and to contribute to sustainable economic growth and deepened intra-regional trade between the european union and the southern african developing countries. on top of this there should be the establishment of a sustainable development dialogue and relevant participative processes for monitoring. i support that while enhancing the development prospects of the region, we are laying the foundation for an economic partnership that is lasting and mutually beneficial. this trade agreement creates new opportunities for the economic development of african partner countries and also offers european businesses new opportunities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the economic partnership agreement because it marks an important step in the establishment of a trading relationship between the eu and the african continent as a whole. the epa will be instrumental in tackling poverty in the region, supporting regional integration and permitting the integration of the sadc epa states into the global economy.
in writing. – i voted against this report. the eu signed an economic partnership agreement (epa) in june 2016 with the southern african development community (sadc) economic partnership agreements (epa) group, which includes botswana, lesotho, mozambique, namibia, south africa and swaziland. epas, created in 2000, are trade agreements that were meant to safeguard african caribbean and pacific (acp) countries’ preferential access to eu markets. epas are changing this preferential access from non-reciprocal to reciprocal access, meaning that acp countries are required to open their markets to eu imports and furthermore, require liberalisation in other areas such as investment and services. this will have serious negative consequences for local populations in the sadc and the strong opposition from these states and civil society mean negotiations have lasted more than a decade.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the immediate adoption and implementation of the work in fishing convention which was agreed with social partners. the convention was adopted by the international labour organisation in 2007. the convention aims to ensure that fishers have good conditions of work on fishing vessels. it includes minimum requirements regarding conditions of service, accommodation and food, occupational health and safety, medical care and social security. the resolution notes that the commission has proposed a council directive implementing the agreement between the social partners concerning implementation of the convention, and recommends the immediate adoption of the council directive, as requested by the social partners.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the agreement on the implementation of the work in fishing convention and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted to support this resolution on the proposal for a council directive implementing the agreement concluded between the social partners concerning the implementation of the ilo’s work in fishing convention, 2007. ilo convention 188 and recommendation 199 deal with concerns such as decent labour and living conditions and health and safety on board, rest periods, payment and accommodation and social security protection in the fishing industry. as a minimum agreement member states and the social partners are free to pursue measures that go beyond the requirements set out in the directive, and the agreement will help the eu to promote the convention’s implementation in partner countries around the world. it is also particularly welcome that this agreement also applies to self-employed fishermen who work alongside workers on the same vessel.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to safeguard working conditions for those employed on board fishing vessels, including protection from exploitation and provision of adequate health and safety standards.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the immediate adoption and implementation of the work in fishing convention which was agreed with social partners. the convention was adopted by the international labour organisation in 2007. the convention aims to ensure that fishers have good conditions of work on fishing vessels. it includes minimum requirements regarding conditions of service, accommodation and food, occupational health and safety, medical care and social security. the resolution notes that the commission has proposed a council directive implementing the agreement between the social partners concerning implementation of the convention, and recommends the immediate adoption of the council directive, as requested by the social partners.
in writing. ‒ on the joint motion for a resolution on recent developments in poland, i and my sinn féin colleagues voted in favour. the resolution identifies huge concerns in relation to civil liberties, adherence to democratic necessities and environmental and constitutional malpractice. the resolution also places a large focus on strict adherence to both the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights. for those reasons we supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the epp motion for resolution on the recent developments in poland and their impact on fundamental rights as laid down in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and i fully back the procedure initiated by the european commission.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the joint motion for resolution regarding the recent developments in poland. unfortunately it seems that the current government in poland is undermining their democratic institutions, thus threatening the rule of law. this runs counter to the fundamental principles of the eu. the ongoing constitutional crisis, the government’s control of the public media, and the politicisation of the national administration are only contributing to isolating the country and damaging citizens’ rights. it is therefore important that the current government restore the rule of law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it raises concerns over the threat posed to the rule of law in poland. i fully agree with its calls on the polish government to comply with the articles contained in the charter of fundamental rights and the echr with respect to democracy and respect for human rights.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution that supports the commission in its stance on poland’s constitutional crisis.
in writing. – on the joint motion for a resolution on recent developments in poland, i and my sinn féin colleagues voted in favour. the resolution identifies huge concerns in relation to civil liberties, adherence to democratic necessities and environmental and constitutional malpractice. the resolution also places a large focus on strict adherence to both the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention of human rights. for those reasons we supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. while it contained many good elements, drawing attention to both the progress tunisia has made towards a democratic transition, such as peaceful transition over the summer despite a split in nidaa tounes, and issues that must be addressed, such as the criminalisation of homosexuality and the fact that the death penalty remains as a possible penalty for certain offences (though it hasn’t been used since 1991), references to eu military missions meant i could not support it. the report called for the intensification of the eunavor med mission, whose mission is to ‘identify, capture and dispose of vessels’ carrying refugees in the mediterranean. as sinn féin disagrees with this military mission, i could not support the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on eu relations with tunisia in the current regional context and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ the peaceful democratic transition process in tunisia represents a successful example in the arab world and its consolidation is paramount for the stability of the entire region. it is imperative for tunisia to implement adequate reforms aimed at boosting employment and developing sustainable and inclusive growth. while the increased democratisation of the people’s representative assembly (pra) is encouraging, there is room for other measures to enhance public administration, democratic transition and development in general in the country. i strongly support the provisions of the motion which call for the abolition of the death penalty and the decriminalisation of homosexuality. equally, freedom of expression should be defended in the press and media as well as freedom of expression online. i welcome the launch of the eu programme of support for security sector reform in tunisia. the promotion of logical objectives, rather than mere support by policy instruments, within a clear strategic vision focusing on prevention, is essential to the development of a clear and coherent security policy which would aid in combating the spread of fundamentalist extremism.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because it highlights the importance of providing support to the tunisian people’s representative assembly (pra) in strengthening the country’s democratic structures and protecting itself from a security spill over from instability in libya.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which promotes the process of democratisation, particularly in the current context of the instability of neighbouring states such as libya.
mr president, i was happy to support this report on social dumping. today, once again in this parliament, president juncker spoke of the same pay for the same work in the same place. i was pleased to hear him reiterate his view that equal pay for equal work in the same place is a focus for this commission. i believe many european citizens will share that view. this is a crucial issue for the eu. i was also pleased to support the proposal of introducing national minimum wages across member states. we have a minimum wage in ireland and i support the proposal that all member states, in line with their national traditions and their practices, introduce a minimum wage. while i understand minimum wages are a member state competence, we still know that decent wages across the eu will help to ensure social cohesion, and social cohesion is the antidote to social dumping. social dumping undermines the eu in a most insidious way.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very good own-initiative report, which proposes solutions to harmonise social rights upwards across the eu. the draft report recommended several measures to fill the regulatory and legislative gaps. these included strengthening labour inspections at national level and the creation of a eu-level body to combat abusive practices; an obligation for companies to have one official address to combat letterbox companies; blacklisting companies responsible for serious offences including the use of undeclared work; and a revision of the posting of workers directive to ensure real equal treatment of workers and fair competition. more than 700 amendments were tabled, mainly by conservatives, and the resulting compromise amendments have weakened the report, in particular by blocking all concrete proposals in relation to the pwd. despite this it is still a very progressive and valuable report that comes at a crucial time in the lead-up to the revision of the pwd.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on social dumping in the eu and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report because recognises the growth in inequality and unemployment in europe as a result of the economic and financial crisis and notes the importance of high-level working conditions in the creation of a robust economy. furthermore i support the report’s proposal for a definition of the term ‘social dumping’ to include illegal practices and law avoidance.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to combat social dumping in europe.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this very good own-initiative report, which proposes solutions to harmonise social rights upwards across the eu. the draft report recommended several measures to fill the regulatory and legislative gaps. these included strengthening labour inspections at national level and the creation of a eu-level body to combat abusive practices; an obligation for companies to have one official address to combat letterbox companies; blacklisting companies responsible for serious offences including the use of undeclared work; and a revision of the posting of workers directive to ensure real equal treatment of workers and fair competition. more than 700 amendments were tabled, mainly by conservatives, and the resulting compromise amendments have weakened the report, in particular by blocking all concrete proposals in relation to the pwd. despite this it is still a very progressive and valuable report that comes at a crucial time in the lead-up to the revision of the pwd.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion and in favour of the oral amendment. i am a member of the priips negotiating team. the file is on packaged retail insurance-based investment products and relates to level 2 regulatory technical standards (rts) developed by the commission to impose disclosure requirements on costs, risk and future performance scenarios on the banks and financial institutions that market these products to retail investors. while we want to see it implemented as quickly as possible there are problems with the rts as they currently stand, particularly in relation to the calculation of future performance (the results are overly optimistic). in the interests of consumer protection we support the revision of the rtss which will require an objection from parliament. for practical reasons i supported the oral amendment, which ‘calls on the commission to consider a proposal postponing the application date of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 without changing any other provision of level 1 in order to ensure a smooth implementation of the requirements set out in the regulation and the delegated regulation, and avoid the application of level 1 without rts being in force in advance’.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution to object commission delegated regulation supplementing regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance based investment products (priips) and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that calls on the commission to consider a proposal postponing the application date of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 to ensure a smooth implementation of its requirements and an objection to the commission’s delegated regulation. this delegated regulation lacks detailed guidance, and if left unchanged there is a risk that the rules set out in the delegated regulation stand to go against the spirit and aim of the legislation, which is to provide clear, comparable, understandable and non-misleading information on priips to retail investors. the commission now needs to submit a new delegated act which will take into account this concern as well as others. one other particularly important concern is that they must ensure that consumer information on investment products is comparable. this is necessary to promote a level playing field in the market, no matter what type of financial intermediary manufactures or markets them.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection to the commission delegated regulation because it failed to match what was contained in the primary regulation.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the motion and in favour of the oral amendment. my colleague matt carthy is a member of the priips negotiating team. the file is on packaged retail insurance-based investment products and relates to level 2 regulatory technical standards (rts) developed by the commission to impose disclosure requirements on costs, risk and future performance scenarios on the banks and financial institutions that market these products to retail investors. while we want to see it implemented as quickly as possible, there are problems with the rts as they currently stand, particularly in relation to the calculation of future performance (the results are overly optimistic). in the interests of consumer protection we support the revision of the rtss which will require an objection from the parliament. for practical reasons i supported the oral amendment, which ‘calls on the commission to consider a proposal postponing the application date of regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 without changing any other provision of level 1 in order to ensure a smooth implementation of the requirements set out in the regulation and the delegated regulation, and avoid the application of level 1 without rts being in force in advance’.
madam president, i think this is a very important discussion, because one of our challenges in making europe competitive again is reindustrialisation, and our targets for 2020 and beyond are very sensible. otherwise we will have what former commissioner tajani, now an mep in my group, called an ‘industrial massacre,’ with large—scale carbon leakage and steel industries, etc. leaving europe and going elsewhere. this is doubly damaging: number one, losing jobs in europe, and number two, increasing rather than reducing co2 emissions. certainly we have to have learned the lessons from what has happened, we have to look at what we are able to do in the future and, above all, we have to reindustrialise europe and create a climate for it to happen, especially in relation to cop21 and its implementation. this is a huge opportunity for us: if we are implementing targets in relation to renewable energies, etc., then we can actually also do the fundamentals, the industrial aspects needing the resources here in the european union.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i’ve stood in this chamber on countless occasions to defend the rights of national parliaments to set their own tax rates, and i do so again today. sinn féin will always defend ireland’s sovereignty, as we have on every occasion when it’s been attacked by the european commission, including on taxation matters, but this ruling is not one of those occasions. i’m sure you, commissioner, and many of your fellow federalists in this room are scratching their heads wondering what’s happened to your best friends in the irish political establishment. the people who the eu could always depend on. when the commission said jump to a savage austerity agenda, they simply asked ‘how harsh?’. when the eu said eur 64 billion and private bank debt should be placed on the shoulders of the irish people or when you demanded new water or property taxes, your friends in fine gael and fianna fáil quickly capitulated. when you proposed trade deals with investment courts that would do more to undermine sovereignty than any commission ruling, your irish friends proudly say ‘we’ll champion that for you’. but today, the commission’s bodies in ireland are fighting back. not in the interests, though, of the irish people or the irish economy, but in the interests of the wealthiest corporations in the world and our global web of tax avoidance. this ruling has no effect whatsoever on our tax rate or our ability to attract inward investment or to create jobs. any investors seeking to remain in, or come to, ireland can be assured of a talented workforce and a 12.5% corporate tax rate that we will protect; they just won’t be assured any longer of sweetheart deals that would allow them to dodge billions of euros in tax. the announced appeal is morally wrong, politically dishonest and economically stupid. we have a housing and health crisis in ireland. many of our public services are savagely underfunded. eur 13 billion, or even a fraction of it, could help solve those problems. rather than spending irish taxpayers’ money on this appeal, our government should instead be restoring our international reputation by ensuring that ireland will never again be part of the international tax avoidance racket.
blue-card question. – mr valli, do you believe that taxation matters on an international scale should be solved – and can be solved – through the oecd beps process? do you not believe that is the correct way that we are moving forward and that every country should sign up to that, both european and international? also, do you think that profits that apple made on products that were sold across the european union should have been taxed in ireland? do you not think that those profits should been taxed elsewhere, and that ireland certainly has taken tax on profits made in its own country? do you not agree with those statements?
madam president, i support the principle of tax justice, so on that, i agree with the commissioner. but the question we ask today is: can eu state aid rules influence or even determine the tax policy of sovereign member states? i do not know the answer to that question, and, crucially, i do not know the implications of a positive answer. that is why we need clarity, and the european court of justice (ecj) is the only institution to provide that clarity. a eur 13 billion bauble has been dangled in front of irish noses. commissioner moscovici said, ‘it is strange for the irish to say “i do not want your eur 13 billion” when they could have social programmes’. so, commissioner, can you guarantee the eur 13 billion to ireland if the ecj agrees with you? or will other countries look for their share of that particular cake? commissioner moscovici has basically guaranteed that we can start drawing up plans for schools and hospitals and houses; many irish politicians already have. can you guarantee that, commissioner?
madam president, i may be one of the lone voices here taking issue with the commission's proposals, but i do so in the name of ireland, and also with the support of the government, backed up by the irish parliament, which voted 93 votes to 36 to appeal this to the european court. a decision which our gue sinn féin representative described as ‘morally wrong’. well, if it is morally wrong to defend the reputation of a country, what is morally right? we have been accused of illegal state aid, which we deny; apple did not get a sweetheart deal. we also take issue with the use of competition law to undermine the sovereignty of a national state. in this instance, taxation is the competence of the member states, and if the sovereignty of other member states was challenged, i think some speakers here would be taking a different line to what they have taken so far. we agree, of course, there are gaping loopholes in relation to tax law and these have to be closed, and are being closed, and we have been at the forefront in that regard, in oecd and on beps. there is also of course envy that we have been so successful in attracting foreign direct investment to ireland. but i can tell you this: if these companies leave ireland they will not be going to paris, they will not be going to berlin, they will not be going anywhere else except singapore and other places outside the european union. we have an educated workforce, we have a great relationship with the united states, which no other country has, we are also a gateway to europe – and that is why we have foreign direct investment. finally, i want to leave you with three points: we are not going to be the messenger boys for the european union, gathering taxes which they say belong to other member states. we are not going to be the punchbag for this european commission when it is afraid to tackle the big states regarding the stability and growth pact. finally, we will see you in court, after which you will hopefully be eating humble pie, perhaps humble apple pie. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question; the answer is obvious, and i have referred to it. we have to establish a level playing field, we have to establish transparency, we have to have the same rules applying right across the european union and globally, and that is what we’re trying to do. but we cannot, as the commissioner is trying to do, apply these rules retroactively. that is a problem with this. indeed, if we do establish a transparency and a fair corporation tax and tax reporting –which we want – then companies will stay in the european union, but if we hound them like this they will leave. the british will be delighted to welcome them, as will singapore, and the european union, as well as ireland and all the member states, will suffer. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – mr kelly, you say that apple will leave ireland and that these jobs will not be going to france or singapore. i know more than yourself. you probably heard tim cook, ceo of apple, on rte, ireland’s national broadcaster, who said that the reason he was in ireland was because of the people and the workers and not because of the tax. do you not believe him? do you not think we are talented enough to attract them anyway without becoming the scumbags of europe?
blue-card answer. – mr flanagan, you speak well, but you do not listen very well. that is exactly what i said – these companies come to ireland not because of corporation tax, primarily, but because of our well-educated workforce, our relationship with the united states, our command of the english language and our gateway to europe. if they decide to leave ireland – which hopefully they will not, and they have said they will not – the same attractions will not be found in any other member state of the european union: they will find places other than the european union to locate, and that is the point.
mr president, i would like to say to commissioner vestager that global corporations of unprecedented size are making unprecedented profits but are avoiding paying taxes on those profits on an unprecedented scale, thus forcing an ever-increasing tax burden on small companies and on individual taxpayers in countries, rich and poor, right across the globe. ireland should do the right thing and accept that it has been involved in behaviour that is not in keeping with those that sought so bravely to make our nation a reality. however, we should not change our ways because we are being told to do so by the commission. we should do it because it is the right thing to do, in the same way that we should not borrow to burn as is demanded by another arm of this institution, the ecb. we should say ‘no way, we won’t pay’. this morning, mr juncker said that this commission is delivering on tax avoidance/evasion. i find it difficult to tell the difference. you, i believe, commissioner, but your boss i don’t believe. capo di tutt'i capi, the ‘godfather’, as they say in italy. it is like al capone running for president of italy on the basis that he will wipe out the mafia. good luck, commissioner vestager, i look forward to the meeting with you and other irish meps on 4 october. hopefully, fine gael will have changed from their newfound scepticism, because it doesn’t suit their pocket.
madam president, president juncker spoke this morning about the need for a political commission. the danger of having a political commission is that sometimes decisions are taken based on politics and not on law; decisions that are more about agenda-setting. in my view, there was a clear determination on this case to get apple in the midst of this investigation, irrespective of the damage done to ireland. the apple case will not be decided here, it will be decided in the european courts and the right of ireland to appeal this decision must be respected by all of us. ireland makes no apology for attracting investment to our country. the multinational sector in ireland employs many thousands of irish people, and indeed people from the european union. in apple’s case 6 000 real irish people are living and working in those communities. the european business environment will not be helped by reinventing competition rules for the us, or indeed for other businesses that come into europe. chancellor merkel recently made this point about sending out mixed messages. my final remark is this: the commission now asks ireland to collect this back tax from apple while, at the same time, encouraging other member states to seek a portion of it. how is this logical? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the issue in relation to apple and tax: it has paid fully its tax in ireland. i think you are misinformed about that. the question is the tax liability it may owe to other member states of the european union. that is why the ruling has been made. as you rightly say, i asked the question: how are we supposed to be the international tax collector in a circumstance where this money may well be owed to other member states? this money does not belong to ireland, this money belongs to other member states where profits have been made. that is why, from a legal perspective, irrespective of emotional arguments, we need to get clarity on that, to be absolutely certain where this money was made, who it belongs to, because in relation to apple in ireland, their taxes are fully paid to ireland.
blue-card question. – ms gomes, you describe the decision of the irish government, endorsed by the irish parliament by 93 votes to 36, to repeal this decision as ‘immoral’. do you consider decisions taken democratically to be immoral, and can any decision we take here in the european parliament by majority decision be regarded as immoral?
madam president, apple did and does pay its tax in ireland on the basis of the corporate tax rate and its activities in ireland. that has not, i think, been very clear in this debate and some people do not seem to understand it. but what is clear is that ireland did not collect tax on apple’s activities in other countries, on the sales of apple products, or on value that may have been added through marketing or innovation. that was to be collected in other jurisdictions, so it should be obvious. that is why the irish government is appealing this decision and why the irish parliament has agreed with the government’s decision. we need certainty and clarity, and i think that the right way to decide on this is in the european courts. i guess that there are opportunities, and there will be opportunities, to deal with corporations on an international scale. the oecd beps programme is the only way for us to do that, with countries sharing information on activities in their own jurisdictions. i think that the irish government has committed to working in that area and it is what we should all be focusing on, both here in the eu and in the us, and indeed internationally.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all can i thank the rapporteur, laura agea, for her constructive and important work on this proposal. this year the council decided that the 2015 employment guidelines should be maintained for 2016. this means that they could, in fact, ignore the european parliament twice because last year too our suggestions were effectively ignored. however, the committee on employment and social affairs, in an effort to ensure that did not happen, came forward with this document under the rapporteurship of laura agea. our message to the council this evening is we do not expect to be ignored for a second time, and i want to thank the commission for its support on this matter. i am pleased to say that many of the alde group priorities were included in this report and these include, first of all, the promotion of entrepreneurship, in particular youth entrepreneurship. this we believe can be achieved by, for example, introducing optional entrepreneurship courses at schools and colleges, and in the creation of student enterprises also. we asked for greater efforts to be made in ensuring a smooth transition from education and training to work, and one of the practical suggestions we put forward is to make it possible for young people to convert several months’ unemployment benefit, up front, into a start-up grant. some of the other alde priorities that are included in the document are supporting the creation and the growth of micro, small and medium enterprises, and one way we can do that is to cut red tape and get rid of unnecessary bureaucracy. alde also supports the call for effective investment in high-level and inclusive education and, in particular, for vocational education. finally, i want to say again that i agree that the rapporteur. unless the council takes our views on board, we are wasting our time here but worst of all, european citizens are being badly served.
mr president, i would like thank the rapporteur for the work that has been done in bringing us to this point. there has been a lot of discussion and a lot of agreement. we all, of course, want to see full employment, we want to see quality employment and, naturally, we want to see workers treated with respect and valued for the contribution that they make to their particular employment. we have seen much social progress in the european union since its establishment. i see it completely where i come from in ireland, and i continually outline the benefits that have come, following our membership of the european union, to those who are in employment. we also need to see that workers are respected and given adequate rest time and holiday time. maternity leave has been very important. we are in the process of reviewing that now, and it is extremely important for females to keep them in the workforce. the whole issue of paternity leave is also very important and needs to be addressed. i am glad that we are moving somewhat in that area. with such high levels of unemployment among our young people, this is one of the tragedies of our generation. i really welcome the work that the commissioner is doing in this area in continuing to support the youth guarantee and ensuring that young people are given proper employment and support in gaining the necessary skills required in today’s workplaces. this has been a very positive development and one of the real shining lights of the previous parliament and this parliament. i thank the commissioner for her work in this area. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – absolutely, and thank you for your question: parliament should take a strong position on this situation. we do want to see that workers across europe are given due recognition and are provided with the necessary support in the workplace that gives them the respect that they deserve. so i think the position parliament is taking and the discussion we are having here really do underline our commitment to the workers of europe.
the report is drawn up by the directorate-general for education and culture. the president, when there is a need to find someone to take the risk, must be able to tell the council that there is no reason to be afraid of the various needs that may arise. the european union is the only country in the world that has a large financial sector. in 2008, the commission launched a review of services to help the sector. the commission should also be able to take account of the fact that the number of companies in the union is increasing. i'm sure i'm going to have to take the apple tea and agree to a deal to give the real thing back to ireland. there is no union in the capital. public sector, loans to households and support for the development of entrepreneurial skills are important for the sector's protection, development and management. you should have access to credit by the time you give it to your bank. bunchloch is a good man for his job. they create jobs and contribute to local economic development.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank mr krasnodębski, the rapporteur, for his support and his patience with the shadows in this. i think we have come to a very a coherent response and an opinion in our views on how smes should be supported. focus as has been said must absolutely be on supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, and indeed start-ups, particularly ensuring that start-ups do not falter after year one or year two, that they are given support at that very delicate point. i think that is important. we know well of the value of smes to our economy, to european economies, they employ 90 million people in europe multinationals have been spoken about much today and in previous debates and the point should be made that multinationals do actually support the creation of smes, and so many smes depend on the presence of multinationals and the supply chain, supplying products and services, and indeed, supporting employees through their services, those that are employed by the multinationals. so they do play a very valuable role. the report favours the reduction of red tape, of course, and removing unnecessary regulation for small businesses and for start-ups. that means smarter regulation and not more regulation. we do not want exemptions for regulation; everybody who wants to be in business, be they small, medium or large, should be subject to regulations. they are there for a reason, for a good reason, but smarter regulation is important. the commission has given assurances that it plans to reduce the regulatory burden on businesses, so we have added to the pressure today by ensuring that they live up to those commitments. in fact, we want to make it easier and cheaper to set up a company to take on employees and to avail of government support. yes, much has been said also of the cost of wages and labour. they are a cost, but i would state that labour is a very important element in any business, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. there cannot be any cutback on the cost of labour, just as rates, rent, power, they are all considered. so we should not skimp and we should not focus on reducing the cost of labour. i think it is important to recognise that workers need to be respected.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this report by my colleague renate weber is a comprehensive and well-balanced assessment on the challenges we face in ensuring equal treatment in employment. some of these challenges were already articulated by commissioner thyssen earlier. this report deals with core issues such as disability, age, religion and belief and sexual orientation, but it also looks at the horizontal aspects which underpin them. some of the issues are more straightforward and can be measured more easily. these include, for example, the provision of reasonable accommodation for people with disabilities, the use of universal design in public places, the inclusion of social clauses in public procurement procedures, the need to conduct a review of upper age limits for certain jobs and act on them, and also the need for member states to work towards ensuring mutual recognition of partnership status, matrimonial regimes and parenting rights. but, equally, some issues are very difficult and very sensitive. some have a significant impact at national level sometimes because of culture, history or more recent events. all i would say on that aspect is that, when you justify discrimination in the area of employment on those issues, you open a pandora’s box.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all, i want to genuinely thank colleagues for the really good and constructive cooperation in this report, and also all the shadows and all the committees who contributed excellent opinions. i just might mention, in particular, our colleague jean-paul denanot from the committee on budgets. i suppose our role here was to assess the activities, the impact and the added-value of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and, of course, to look to the future, to indicate what our proposals are for a more effective and more efficient egf. i am grateful to colleagues for the engagement. the egf is small fund compared to the esf, for example; it is also a new fund. i think that gives us a sense that we can help to shape it in a positive way. in this report we look to see: how we can help to make it more effective; what partnership models will deliver better outcomes for redundant workers who have lost their jobs due to globalisation; how we can organise the process so that it responds in a more timely way to the needs of workers; how we can ensure better value for money for both the workers and for eu taxpayers; and how we can spend that money in a more efficient way; how can we ensure we have relevant data that allows us to assess the outcomes from the funds without placing undue requirements on member states; and, of course, crucially, how we can help ensure personalised, well-coordinated measures that are tailored to the individual needs of the redundant workers. in that way we do two things: we express our solidarity with them at a difficult time and, secondly, we assist them in the transition to sustainable employment. so what makes the egf different to the esf? well, the egf is meant to deal with emergencies, more short-term in its approach, while the esf is more structural. both have their advantages, and indeed it has been very positive to see how member states use the esf as a complementary tool to the egf. we also propose that member states need to achieve synergies between egf and esi funds. we emphasize that esi funds can act as follow-up measures in egf areas of support by stimulating investment and overall job creation. so what are the positives? well, timelines have improved considerably due to efforts by all actors: the commission, member states, parliament, etc. the self-employed are now included. neets can benefit from egf support in numbers equal to the numbers of targeted beneficiaries. the egf is now part of the shared fund management system, and i commend the commission on this. co-funding has been increased to 60%, more member states are using egf and spending, under personalised measures, has been lowered to 35%. indeed, in many recent applications that spending is considerably less. the court of auditors tells us that nearly all egf beneficiaries were able to benefit from personalised and well-coordinated measures. the re-employment rate is around 50%, and as member states become more used to the fund, their applications are more timely. but there are still negatives: member states don’t use the egf often enough and, crucially, do not often use the derogation. funding has been cut from 500 million to 150 million, budget implementation is only 55% but improving. there is a concentration of applications in the manufacturing, automotive construction and aviation sectors. we need to take a different approach to neets and to redundant workers. so it is important to design the egf in such a way that it can respond to their needs. the member states need to make publicly available all relevant information in regard to egf cases, and they need to set quantitive reintegration objectives so that we can measure the success. finally, the most important point is that the egf must guarantee eu added-value for redundant workers and taxpayers. then we can strongly call for its continuation and expansion.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i would like to thank ms harkin for her work on the report. to echo what some of colleagues have said, the egf is a worthwhile and positive fund, and i support it. but this fund is often used to compensate for the damaging effects of policies that have stemmed from the european commission. it has been the policies of deindustrialisation and unfettered free trade which in the main have created the need for the egf. not only have these policies caused job losses but their fallout has undermined workers’ rights and caused irreparable social damage. within the report, i agree with the call for greater government transparency and the reference to a mid-term review at member state level so that member states can assess the progress of the egf in their countries and identify issues early that might need intervention. in many countries, such as my own, ireland, there has been a severe underspend of egf funds and it does not become apparent until the end of the term when the monies are handed back. this is unfair to workers as they are the ones that suffer when the funding is not put to the best use. i also welcome the reference to creating stronger working conditions and working relationships with the community and voluntary sector, as they are the ones that are best placed to assess, particularly, the needs of neets, and to raise the awareness of egf opportunities with them. as i said, overall this is a very good report – and would again just like to thank ms harkin for her work in reaching consensus – and i will be supporting it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i agree with the vast majority of what you have said, but obviously, as somebody who has been a trade union member for many years, my interests are with the workers. while i think we do need to do more to secure proper redundancy payments and proper collective bargaining for workers, in the absence of that, and without changing the direction of the european union in relation to trade and to its relationship with multinational corporations who treat workers disgracefully, the european globalisation adjustment fund is the only thing that workers have – and that is why, reluctantly, i accept it because we need anything that we can get, particularly in ireland, and i am sure in many other member states, to help those workers get back into employment. however, i agree with you: we need to change the direction of the eu to deal with multinational corporations and their shocking treatment of workers.
member of the commission. – mr president, once again i would like to express my appreciation for the work done by the rapporteur and i would also like to thank parliament on behalf of the commission for the valuable suggestions to further improve the functioning of the european globalisation fund and to adapt it as well as the legal basis allows to the constantly changing needs of the european labour market. today, the european globalisation fund cannot be used to anticipate the consequences of global trade; it has been designed to react to concrete situations such as the closure of factories. my personal view is that anticipating is always better than repairing the damage. it is therefore logical that trade policy be well coordinated with social and industrial policy to prepare our economy in good time for the changes triggered by a new trade partnership. today, as you know, the preparation of trade agreements includes a social impact assessment. a trade agreement must, of course, generate overall a positive outcome for both partners, but within the globally positive deal it is not excluded that certain sectors of our economies could suffer. in that respect, i share the view of cecilia malmström that something should be done to address possible negative effects of global trade on specific sectors and, as i said, the egf in its current design is not fit for that purpose. i want to reassure members of parliament that, as your president said, i will ensure that for all policies appropriate gender indicators are used to monitor the respect of gender equality in particular in the labour market and we will of course further reflect on the ideas in your report when preparing the legal basis for the functioning of the egf beyond 2020. i thank you for your inspiration.
rapporteur. – mr president, i thank colleagues for a most engaging debate. i will not be able to respond to all of the issues raised, but i will try to address a number of them at least. commissioner, you started by agreeing that the egf cannot be used as an intervention tool in job losses in the case of trade deals, and that was re-echoed by many colleagues, particularly maria reina who quite rightly challenged commissioner malmström for suggesting at some point previously that a small eur 150 million per annum fund could deal with the negative fall-out from proposed trade deals. many colleagues spoke of the need to anticipate and manage change, and i think we need to broaden our thinking to see if earlier action or pre-emptive action could be more effective. some colleagues suggested that employers are using the egf as a means of evading their legislative responsibilities. i reject this assertion as in all cases member states guarantee that the dismissing enterprises have complied with all their legal obligations. we might wish that those legal obligations were more extensive, but that is a separate issue. the core point is that the egf does not replace the responsibilities of companies; it is a solidarity mechanism from the eu and employers do not benefit. i was really pleased to hear the commissioner say that the commission going to come forward with a proposal to extend the derogation on neets. because this a new facet to the egf, we have not had time yet to assess its impact, but we need to ensure that measures targeting neets are tailored towards their needs, and in that context i thank my colleague, lynn boylan, whose amendment on ensuring community participation will, i believe, improve the participation of neets. commissioner thyssen, you spoke of the derogations with regard to 4.1(a) and (b), but we also have 4.2 where, in exceptional circumstances, there can be applications from small labour markets. i just want to ask you if there is any bias against those applications – i would hope not. and i agree with colleagues who say that workers in smes have not had the same access as workers in larger companies. finally, i believe that if the suggestions in this report, which represent a compromise from all across parliament, are implemented, the egf will be improved and will serve our workers in a more timely, targeted and efficient way.
mr president, what this country is doing is appalling. the war on drugs is not actually a war on drugs, it is a war on people. they say people take drugs to try and experience another reality. listening to many people in the debate here, i wonder what drugs you are on, because you talk about a war on drugs and you talk about how cartels should not be promoted in selling these drugs, and that we have got to do something about it. yet, at the same time, i can walk out of here and i can buy as dangerous a drug as exists called alcohol around here, and you do not seem to have a problem with it. when you are having a debate and a discussion on something and young people tune into it and they see that it does not add up, because 2 + 2 is not 5, they tune out. they will tune out of this debate as well, because i hear people here say they are against drugs and i have seen them drink alcohol. make up your minds.
the president, my group and i voted in favour of this report, which is an important report. as the rapporteur has noted, one of the requirements of the current migrant crisis is to establish an effective means of returning those who do not qualify for international protection within the eu to their relevant third countries. a standard european travel document for return will ensure a wider acceptance of returnees by third countries, as well as facilitating understanding of the real recognition rate. the current challenges to readmission decreased the capacity and resources of member states at a time when a reduction in their administrative burden is essential. it is my belief, therefore, in accordance with this report, that the uniform document, with enhanced technical and security features, would be an effective means of increasing the mutual recognition of asylum decisions across the eu. i therefore welcome this report.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. this proposed regulation is essentially a deportation charter. the focus of the proposal is to create a common eu travel document, to be issued only to third-country nationals who are in the eu ‘illegally’, for the sole purpose of deportation. this eu deportation passport would be uniform and mandatory for member states to use. it would be printed only in an eu or one third-country language, so most of the people affected by it would not be able to read it. the document would specify ‘distinguishing features’ and would contain personal data, and the system would be managed by eurodac and the schengen information service. recognition of this deportation document would also be a prerequisite for any third-country migration/asylum cooperation with the eu. for the above reasons, i voted against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the travel document for the return of illegally staying third country nationals and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ the provision relating to security features – which is intended to make possible in the future the use of digital and/or biometric data – is also unnecessary, disproportionate and even dangerous (as the document is issued for a person in custody and is valid until her/his return, meaning while this person will remain in police custody). i voted against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ i support the establishment of a common format and technical and security specifications for a harmonised european travel document for the return of third country nationals staying irregularly on the territory of the union. the content and technical specifications of the european travel documents for return should be harmonised in order to ensure high technical and security standards, in particular as regards safeguards against counterfeiting and falsification. this would combat illegal entry into the eu member states. it should also be ensured that the fundamental rights and principles recognised by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, in particular human dignity and protection in the event of removal, expulsion or extradition, are observed. the proposal should apply without prejudice to the right to an effective remedy and to a fair trial and to the right to asylum as provided for the charter.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of increased harmonisation and technical specification for the european travel document for the return of illegally staying third-country nationals.
in writing. – i voted against this report. this proposed regulation is essentially a deportation charter. the focus of the proposal is to create a common eu travel document, with the sole purpose of deportation, to be issued only to third-country nationals in the eu ‘illegally’. this eu deportation passport would be uniform and mandatory for member states to use. it would be printed only in an eu or one third-country language, so most people affected by it would not be able to read it. the document is to specify ‘distinguishing features’; would contain personal data; and would be managed by eurodac and the schengen information service. recognition of this deportation document would also be a prerequisite for any third-country migration/asylum cooperation with the eu. for the above reasons, i voted against the proposal.
in writing. ‒ this report relates to a ‘prospectus’ – an information and disclosure document – that must be provided to investors in the context of seeking to raise capital on the capital markets. the proposed regulation is part of the capital markets union (cmu). the commission wants further to harmonise the prospectus regime in the eu so that it will be easier for companies and investors to buy and sell bonds and shares. the proposed measures specifically aim to: reduce the administrative burden of drawing up prospectuses for all issuers, in particular for smes and frequent issuers of securities and secondary issuances; make the prospectus a more relevant disclosure tool for potential investors, especially in smes; and achieve more convergence between the eu prospectus and other eu disclosure rules. we are in favour of maximum disclosure on risk to consumers, so we oppose some of the exemptions but we are also fundamentally opposed to the cmu. because of the cmu aspects in the report i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision of the european parliament to refer the report on the prospectus to be published when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading back to the committee on economic affairs.
in writing. ‒ the main reasons for the economic crisis are not addressed in this proposal at all, as the main problem for businesses is not getting access to funding but rather a lack of demand for their products due to ongoing austerity policies.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation, which constitutes an essential step towards the completion of the capital markets union (cmu). the reform of the current directive will reduce the administrative burden of drawing up prospectuses for all issuers, and in particular for smes. it will also make the prospectus a more relevant disclosure tool for potential investors, while unifying eu capital markets to deliver high levels of investor protection, and thus creating growth and jobs. the aim of this regulation is to ensure investor protection and market efficiency, while enhancing the single market for capital through the publication of a prospectus by a company when securities are offered to the public or admitted to trading. the provision on the data published in the prospectus ensures that investors will be able to make an informed assessment on investment decisions. the prospectus includes information which, according to the nature of the issuer and of the securities, is necessary to enable investors to make an informed evaluation, as well as rules on the conduct of business and the protection of investors. such information provides an effective means of increasing confidence in securities and thus of contributing to the proper functioning and development of securities markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections to the proposal.
in writing. – this report relates to a ‘prospectus’ – an information and disclosure document – that must be provided to investors in the context of seeking to raise capital on the capital markets. the proposed regulation is part of the capital markets union (cmu). the commission wants further to harmonise the prospectus regime in the eu so that it will be easier for companies and investors to buy and sell bonds and shares. the proposed measures specifically aim to: reduce the administrative burden of drawing up of prospectuses for all issuers and in particular for smes and frequent issuers of securities and secondary issuances; make the prospectus a more relevant disclosure tool for potential investors, especially in smes; and achieve more convergence between the eu prospectus and other eu disclosure rules. we are in favour of maximum disclosure on risk to consumers, so we are opposed to some of the exemptions, but we are also fundamentally opposed to the cmu. because of the cmu aspects in the report, i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report and voted in favour. the report is strong on protecting the concept of shared responsibility for the refugee crisis, calls for safe and legal access for refugees, is committed to family reunification, acknowledges the dire situation in greece and italy and seeks to add afghan refugees to the relocation category.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on asylum: provisional measures in favour of italy and greece and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report as it is a clear political statement of our opposition to the eu-turkey deal.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. given the strain that the migrant crisis has had on the infrastructures of certain member states, and given the potential for fundamental rights abuses, i believe that an amendment of provisional measures in the area of international protection, for the benefit of italy and greece, is necessary. i accept and support the provision that member states should make available at least one third of their relocation places by 31 december 2016. it should be the duty of the european border and coast guard agency to keep under constant review the situation regarding massive inflows of third-country nationals into member states. it is imperative that syrian refugees, in particular, be resettled to the union. there should be a greater number of safer and lawful routes for asylum seekers and refugees into the union, including a binding and mandatory union legislative approach to resettlement, the establishment of humanitarian admission programmes by all member states and more extensive use of humanitarian visas.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which acknowledges the need for further action for resettlement, resettling syrians from turkey through a 1:1 scheme.
in writing. – i supported the report and voted in favour. the report is strong on protecting the concept of shared responsibility for the refugee crisis, calls for safe and legal access for refugees, is committed to family reunification, acknowledges the dire situation in greece and italy and seeks to add afghan refugees to the relocation category.
the president voted again in favour of the report and my group voted against it. so this report deals with the assessment of economic and social policies within the european union and i would hope, as this report highlights, that the role and opinion of the parliament will be better considered by the council as we move forward. this is a very important point. we are at a critical stage where the spirit of cooperation between the european institutions should not be called into question, nor should it act as an obstacle to the development of more effective policies at member state level. staying in line with the stability and growth pact and remaining responsive to economic change, we may together and together is the key word promote the development and accommodation of a more skilled and adaptable workforce, providing for sustainable and inclusive growth across all member states.
in writing. ‒ this report included several good aspects such as calling for public investment, job creation, and support for workers’ rights. however, it calls for all of this within the confines of the european stability and growth pact as well as the european semester. these two things are almost diametrically opposed – you cannot have a decent level of investment etc. while you are in a fiscal straight jacket. because of the positive aspects around workers’ rights etc. i did not vote against this report, but i could not support it either, given the confines in which it wishes to place investment and job creation, i.e. the stability and growth pact and european semester. for these reasons i abstained on the overall report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states and i noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ the report mentions public investments for job-creation, and supports workers ‘rights in many aspects. but it also strongly supports the european stability and growth pact, and suggests, that all employment reforms should be made of the european semester and the country specific recommendations framework. i abstained.
in writing. ‒ the employment guidelines are a soft policy instrument by which the eu outlines common priorities and targets for labour market strategy in the member states. they are one part of broader economic and employment guidelines and are renewed substantively every 5 years. the council’s decision to maintain the 2015 employment guidelines for this year was particularly galling given they did not take up any suggestions from the european parliament in the 2015 procedure. this report reiterates the parliament’s demands on the four guidelines put forward by the commission and adopted by council last year, namely boosting demand for labour, enhancing labour supply and skills, enhancing the functioning of labour markets and ensuring social justice, combatting poverty and promoting equal opportunities. in particular i was happy to support the report’s calls for entrepreneurship education and measures to improve entrepreneurship, less red tape for smes, access to quality education and vocational training and the diversification of skills in order to better adapt to future labour market needs.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. – this report included several good aspects such as calling for public investment, job creation, and support for workers’ rights. however, it calls for all of this within the confines of the european stability and growth pact as well as the european semester. these two things are almost diametrically opposed – you cannot have a decent level of investment etc. while you are in a fiscal straight jacket. because of the positive aspects around workers’ rights etc. i did not vote against this report, but i could not support it either, given the confines in which it wishes to place investment and job creation, i.e. the stability and growth pact and european semester. for these reasons i abstained on the overall report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the motion comes ahead of the 17th meeting of the parties to the convention on international trade in in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), of which the eu is now a member (as of 2015), and it calls for further action in cracking down on illegal trafficking of wildlife, which is still widespread.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion on key objectives for the cites cop17 meeting in johannesburg and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this resolution. the motion comes ahead of the 17th meeting of the parties to the convention on international trade in in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites), of which the eu is now a member (as of 2015), and it calls for further action in cracking down on illegal trafficking of wildlife, which is still widespread.
the president, without any objection, voted for the report by five votes to one. on the other side of ireland... i would like to say that, faced with the decline of the rural post office network, i would be keen to emphasise the value and presence of our postal services, which are indeed changing but are nonetheless vital to our communications sector and in terms of employment. the 2008 third postal services directive encouraged the completion of the internal market in this domain. however, in line with this report, i would call on the commission to assist member states in their efforts to implement such policies effectively at national and regional level. we appreciate the vital role that this sector plays in the spheres of communication and employment whilst also boosting economic and territorial cohesion across the eu and in the single market.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which followed a review of the application of the postal services directive across the eu. this directive has been disastrous for public services, jobs and workers’ rights in ireland and throughout the eu. the liberalisation of postal services under the directive has resulted in the closure of post offices across ireland, and the postal service in the north especially has been decimated as a result. the report supported the ongoing implementation of the directive, and for that reason i voted against it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the application of the postal services directive and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ even if the final result is better than initially expected, i am still concerned about giving the commission arguments for reviewing the universal service obligation. therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which promotes effective competition in the postal services sector as it faces challenges such as e—substitution on one hand and online shopping on the other.
in writing. – i voted against this report, which followed a review of the application of the postal services directive across the eu. this directive has been disastrous for public services, jobs and workers’ rights in ireland and throughout the eu. the liberalisation of postal services under the directive has resulted in the closure of post offices across ireland, and the postal service in the north especially has been decimated as a result. the report supported the ongoing implementation of the directive, and for that reason i voted against it.
president, first of all i would like to give a big compliment to my friend and colleague, othmar karas, for the wonderful work he has done, not only on this report, but also on the laws that apply to this subject as well, and in relation to my own... i want to emphasise that we have one of the highest rejection rates for sme bank loan applications in europe, and on that basis i welcome the views outlined by the rapporteur in this report. in particular, i note the approval of the non-banking finance recommendations that will provide alternatives to short-term financing options such as overdrafts, which often hinder sustainable development. although banks are best positioned to provide tailored long-term financial assistance, the reality of the market necessitates an exploration of different means to meet financial needs. i think this initiative is timely and in the right direction, but i would also like to see further examination of the benefits of crowdfunding.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. the report proposes that the best way to boost smes in the eu is by pushing forward with the capital markets union, which will promote the shadow banking sector that played a fundamental role in causing the 2008 financial crash and economic crisis. there are some positive calls in there for increasing smes’ access to credit from banks and eu funds, but the overall proposal is for the development of new financial vehicles based on securitisation and risk-sharing instruments, and this will supposedly solve the problem.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on access to finance for smes and increasing the diversity of sme funding in a capital markets union and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ there is a core neoliberal approach here. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are the backbone of europe’s economy. they represent 99% of all businesses in the eu. in the past five years, they have created around 85% of new jobs and provided two-thirds of the total private sector employment in the eu. smes and entrepreneurship are key to ensuring economic growth, innovation, job creation and social integration in the eu. accordingly, finance for smes has been a long-standing theme on the policy agenda. i voted in favour of this report, which supports the proposals made in the cmu action plan for better connecting smes with a wide range of funding options, and asks the commission to initiate a thorough analysis of obstacles to smes’ tapping capital markets and to address these barriers in a timely manner.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to increase access to funding for smes.
in writing. – i voted against this report. the report proposes that the best way to boost smes in the eu is by pushing forward with the capital markets union, which will promote the shadow banking sector that played a fundamental role in causing the 2008 financial crash and economic crisis. there are some positive calls in there for increasing smes’ access to credit from banks and eu funds, but the overall proposal is for the development of new financial vehicles based on securitisation and risk-sharing instruments, and this will supposedly solve the problem.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. while i fully support the concept that smes have a lot of potential for job creation, the report placed far too much emphasis on reducing protection, rights, wages and conditions for workers. while it had some positive calls for further education and training of workers and access to support for smes, it also included negative calls for the promotion of temporary work by the commission and member states, as well as for ‘regulatory burdens’ in health and safety to be reduced. due to the generally neoliberal, anti-worker approach of the report i voted against.
in writing. ‒ the report implicitly calls for an exemption for smes from regulatory standards, and calls for a shift away from direct taxation to indirect, regressive taxation. i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report which looks at the potential of europe’s smes to create employment. smes make up almost 99% of european companies and form the backbone of the eu economy, providing two thirds of private-sector employment in the eu. however, smes face specific challenges such as skills shortages/mismatches, regulatory uncertainty and administrative burdens, as well as the problem of undeclared work, which larger companies often do not. the report emphasises the importance of a stable regulatory environment and improved regulatory efficiency and enforcement as a way to reduce sme costs and establish a level playing field. i was particularly pleased to support provisions emphasising the need for matching skills and qualifications with market demands and promoting entrepreneurship for young people, specifically development of vocational education training that facilitates work-based learning and apprenticeships, and the encouragement of partnerships between employers and educators to help young people to acquire entrepreneurial skills, as well as to better recognise and validate non-formal education and skills. i also support the call on the commission to conduct an impact assessment regarding the implications of ttip, and of granting china market economy status (mes), on the number and quality of jobs in the sme sector in member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections against it.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which looks into the conditions which would best harness the job creation potential of smes in the european union.
in writing. – i voted against this report. while i fully support the concept that smes have a lot of potential for job creation, the report placed far too much emphasis on reducing protection, rights, wages and conditions for workers. while it had some positive calls for further education and training of workers and access to support for smes, it also included negative calls for the promotion of temporary work by the commission and member states, as well as for ‘regulatory burdens’ in health and safety to be reduced. due to the generally neoliberal, anti-worker approach of the report i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this positive report examining the application of the employment equality directive across the eu. the report contains strong and positive proposals about achieving workplace and social equality for lgbti people, women and parents, anti-discrimination elements around race, religion and gender, as well as positive aspects around equality for people with disabilities in the workplace.
in writing. ‒ the main points of contention were issues related to lgbti and the leave directives. the outcome of the negotiations was overall positive.
in writing. ‒ i was pleased to support this report which is a well balanced and comprehensive assessment of the challenges we face in ensuring equal treatment in employment and protection from discrimination on the grounds of sex, race, disability, age, religion and belief or sexual orientation. while great progress has been made since the directive’s introduction, discrimination is still a problem for our society. according to data from the eu fundamental rights agency, 40% of roma job seekers experience discrimination, 75% of gay people will not hold hands in public with their partner, 38% of jewish respondents admitted they do not wear their symbolic garments in public and 37% of muslim respondents have reported experiencing discrimination. the report highlights the importance of collecting data, in order to help prove the existence of discrimination and in particular indirect discrimination. awareness raising and access to information, with the help of equality bodies and social partners, is crucial as many victims themselves still have difficulty in recognising discrimination. access to justice in discrimination cases is also a key area highlighted in the report.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report that seeks a level playing field and how the eed can be improved.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this positive report examining the application of the employment equality directive across the eu. the report contains strong and positive proposals about achieving workplace and social equality for lgbti people, women and parents, anti-discrimination elements around race, religion and gender, as well as positive aspects around equality for people with disabilities in the workplace.
the president, first voted with my group in the plenary and then took the laws and the report won no further action. i'm not going to. i would also like to thank my colleague from the alde and my friend, mrs marian harkin, for the work they have done in this area, especially on the laws in this report. and that's why it's important to be able to speak in japanese. i saw myself and my memories, they were in the chaill jabanna and ndell, the chaill jabanna and waterford crystal in the sea without. and i remember going to tell him that i was the only one who had a clue when he said that. and when i heard about this, i said, "we're going to tell the devil". therefore, we show that we can do our job and we should follow the laws that we have set up.
in writing. ‒ this was generally a good report and i voted in favour. my sinn féin colleague was involved as negotiator at the committee level where she proposed amendments aiming to increase transparency in the egf process, increase the focus on reaching out to young people not in education, employment or training, and ensure that the funds do not get returned to the commission unspent due to slow implementation or incompetence by national authorities. overall the egf as a fund helps workers when they are in need of help having been made redundant because they are the victims of deindustrialisation, globalisation, or the financial crisis, therefore we supported it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the activities, impact and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund between 2007 and 2014 and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ the final report voted on in committee, while not perfect, included more progressive content than the draft, including a focus on how the egf can work better for older workers, women, young people and single parents. i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the purpose of this report, for which i was rapporteur, was to assess the activities, implementation and added value of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) from 2007 to 2014 and to make recommendations on how the fund could be made more effective and efficient based on our observations. the egf is a small fund compared to the esf and others but nonetheless has an important role to play in supporting and expressing solidarity with workers made redundant as a result of globalisation, a phenomenon we must grapple with increasingly. the report examines issues such as what models used will deliver the best outcomes for redundant workers, timely and responsive intervention and implementation, value for money and efficient spending and data collection for qualitative and quantitative assessment. with the revision of the regulation the fund has seen improvements such as the inclusion of self-employed persons and neets as potential beneficiaries, increased efforts to support entrepreneurship and the inclusion of the egf in the sfc facility resulting in better coordination and data collection. areas to be improved include the budget implementation rate of 55% and the limited impact on smes despite existing flexibility under art. 4(2) which could be used.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i have no objections.
in writing. – this was generally a good report and i voted in favour. my sinn féin colleague was involved as negotiator at the committee level where she proposed amendments aiming to increase transparency in the egf process, increase the focus on reaching out to young people not in education, employment or training, and ensure that the funds do not get returned to the commission unspent due to slow implementation or incompetence by national authorities. overall the egf as a fund helps workers when they are in need of help having been made redundant because they are the victims of deindustrialisation, globalisation, or the financial crisis, therefore we supported it.
go raibh maith agat a uachtaráin, fáilte romhat, a choimisinéir, déarfainn go raibh cuid de na feisirí beagáinín ródhian ort. i'm going to go to the hospital, and i'm going to go to the hospital. is it possible for every person to be a deanach, agus gan dabht ta leithscéal maith agat. ah, good afternoon. i know that i'm going to be there for you. i think, also, that there is a caimiléireacht ag baint le gach gné de aktivitíochtaí an chine daonna, and that is why there is a debate about whether we should have a thráthnóna and whether there is something to do about it, moreover. madam president, the lisbon treaty has given us certain competences in sport, and we would like to put emphasis on promoting sport. sports week is a good example of that, and i commend the commission and everyone involved in trying to promote it. but there is the downside, which we're discussing now, especially in relation to match-fixing. it came as a surprise to me, and maybe to my colleagues too, when we had the sport intergroup meeting here a couple of months back dealing with this issue, when tennis was seen as the game there was most afflicted by this. in some respects it is not surprising because it is much easier to fix a match involving two people then involving 22, as would be the case in a soccer match. but at the same time, there's a good image of tennis, and of course we have to look at the reasons, and in some respects of course it's easier to fix it. if i was playing jim nicholson in tennis and he was clearly a better player than me, he could allow me to win and take a package. but of course he wouldn't do that. but you can see the point i'm making and for that reason, i think there's a need for rules, especially in relation to banning gambling on games you are involved in yourself, on games involving minors and on what i call in-play betting. all those things have to be looked at. there is also a need for proper governance, and i think we should ask the forthcoming maltese presidency of the council to try and look at this so that we can get the convention adopted. that would be a good help. we have to have, of course, codes of conduct, and we don't have to look much further than recently, when in the middle of the olympics, rather strangely, referees were stood down by the boxing authorities. now that's rather strange, but it just shows you again that there was a lot of controversy prior to that regarding the results. there are all sorts of opportunities, not necessarily to fix matches but certainly to give wrong results, etc. we have a huge task ahead of us to try and come to grips with it, but at least today we are trying to have a debate here in the european parliament and then we can progress from there under the guidance of the commissioner, i also look forward to seeing the maltese presidency, especially, doing something about it.
mr president, this is a very important topic, and again i think it shows the genuine commitment of the european union to helping all peoples in the world. it is a commitment that is genuine and sincere and to which we give a lot of support and for which we get very little credit, not to mention publicity. nevertheless, it is work that needs to be done, because when millions and millions of people around the world – especially children – are dying of malnutrition on the one hand, and then in our own first-world many of them are suffering from obesity, there is a reconciliation there that needs to be done, which will not be easy. one area that i would like to see much more emphasis placed on is the whole area of research and development – especially research. with climate change, some places are getting warmer and drier while other places are getting wetter and colder. crops need to adjust, and i think we need to do a lot more research in that regard.
mr president, this is a most interesting discussion and a serious issue for the world generally. i would hope, particularly now that we have 195 countries signed up to cop 21, that this is an issue that should be easier to tackle globally – especially now as we go to morocco and try to implement the agreement that was signed in paris in december. that should certainly help. also of interest is that in my own constituency there is an innovative company called treemetrics who log, map and monitor what is happening in forests through satellite imagery. that might be useful, especially in tracking illegal logging, etc., and is something that might be worth looking at. i was very encouraged, though, to hear that progress has been made, for instance, in indonesia. in the space of 14 years, there was a 70% reduction in illegal logging due to bilateral arrangements and discussions. i think, as the commissioner pointed out, that ghana and other countries will hopefully follow in due course.
mr president, there was always a contradiction at the heart of the argument that said ‘we will control our borders while keeping access to the single market’. those lies were laid bare by theresa may last weekend. there were no weasel words from mrs may. she laid it on the line when she said: ‘we will decide for ourselves how we control immigration and we will be free to pass our own laws’. the most important word there is ‘ourselves’. there is no attempt at negotiation; no soft brexit. she is setting the parameters. this has the potential to be catastrophic for ireland in so many ways, but particularly for some of our indigenous industries, particularly the agri-food sector. by comparison, 7% of german exports go to the uk, 17% of irish exports go to the uk. the british will be hard-nosed in their negotiations. we in ireland must move swiftly and sure-footedly to protect our interests. we are entering a critical time. as we say in ireland: ‘we are playing senior hurling now’.
mr president, yesterday the british prime minister announced her intention formally to trigger article 50 by the end of march 2017. politically, socially and economically, brexit has enormous consequences for the island of ireland. it is said that ireland is the country that will be most affected by brexit. we export 50% of our beef, 60% of cheese and 85% of our agricultural products to the uk. but the most important issue i want to comment on tonight is the peace process. a lot of time, effort and energy has been invested, with the help of the european union, in ensuring that there is peace on the island of ireland. communities live together side by side, there are no divisions, there is free movement of people across the border. we have agencies such as tourism ireland and intertrade ireland working on an all-ireland basis, promoting the island of ireland and activities on the island of ireland. we do not want to see that border reinstated. we want to ensure that the implications of such a border are recognised: that there could be a negative influence on the peace process, which has been supported by the european union. i would ask this house, and everybody here, to bear in mind the peace process and the border in ireland. we do not want to see that border reinstated, and it behoves everybody to pay due attention to that issue.
as a president, i would like to support the measures that have been taken in ireland to deal with brexit, and i am here to speak to the leader group this evening as they are being put forward. there are many problems linked to new laws and processes; the great programme is leader and it encourages and supports economic development in our small countries and their people. there is ample evidence that in the years since the programme was created, the post has been created. i don't understand why you're going to do this without any restrictions. i don't understand why we're trained in the rules and now we're under the control of the police instead of the people. there is no treaty and there is no federal law and there is no clarity on laws and procedures. the commission has been asked to consider the question of whether the programme is being implemented. it's a global marketplace that's been flooded with funding, and it's a marketplace that's been flooded with stories. i would like to draw your attention to this important issue.
mr president, while many are speaking tonight on brexit, i would like to raise another issue relating to britain. between 2002 and 2010 it is known that the british metropolitan police sent undercover police to infiltrate democratic campaign groups in ireland, the six counties, scotland and germany. some of these undercover police incited violent actions at protests. others testified under their aliases, leading to over 50 convictions being overturned in england and wales. more disturbing is the fact that some sexually exploited female activists and even fathered children. despite scotland, the north of ireland and germany rightly demanding answers from the british metropolitan police, irish justice minister frances fitzgerald is refusing to demand how many undercover police operated in ireland, which organisations were targeted and who authorised their presence in ireland. brexit will not excuse theresa may from explaining what british undercover police were doing in ireland. their victims demand answers and minister fitzgerald should join her counterparts in demanding those answers.
the president, was one of the few people to be represented in parliament and the parliaments and me in the parliament, when the cop 21 was held, and a staggering amount of progress was achieved. the commission, especially the commissioner arias cañete, is a leader in the area of the environment. now, caithfimid is in effect. the commission has also proposed that the slovak presidency should be able to support the adoption of the laws in the country. now there is a target of 55% needed by next month and we can do it effectively in marrakech next month. i'll see you again, thank you very much. but then, we will have to ask the european parliament to achieve its own goals without interfering with the eu's competitiveness, so to speak. but we can't do that. i hope you're not going to do that.
madam president, this is a very important topic and i think it highlights again the amount of good work that the european union endeavours to do and its efforts to achieve a good standard of human rights across the globe, especially in areas with which we have dealings in relation to trade. i would like to compliment the rapporteur, marietje schaake, for her good work: as always, it has been comprehensive and dedicated. this is really about closing the loopholes, and that is what has been achieved to a large degree. you will never, of course, close loopholes one hundred percent, and it has been pointed out that some goods traded could be used both to save and to kill people. be that as it may, movements such as abolishing the death penalty are something that we are very strong on, and this is something we have to work towards continually. so this is a positive action by the european union to help promote human rights across the globe and that is to be commended.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which was a rubber stamp for the eu to join up to the paris agreement, agreed at cop21. this is the first time that 195 countries have agreed to a pact to reduce dependence on fossil fuels. there is still a long way to go before these points can be realised, but the agreement was a good start.
in writing. ‒ those of us who have been following this process closely have suffered through many years of global climate summits where urgently needed consensus for action eluded us. while we are consumed by more immediate concerns, it is easy to forget or to belittle the urgency of finally stalling the increase in greenhouse gas emissions, before global temperatures tip over a level that will usher in catastrophic disruption beyond our control. now that we have unblocked the ratification of the agreement by the eu, in the presence of un secretary-general ban ki moon, the council of member states will follow suit and we can have it formalised at the un headquarters in new york by friday. but even if we make good on our collective commitments, that is still not good enough to keep temperatures from rising below 2 degrees celsius. we must keep working together and acknowledge that fundamental choices in the very near future will determine the survival of the species.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion on behalf of the eu of the paris agreement adopted under the un framework convention on climate change, and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as the planet’s future is at stake.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the ratification of the paris agreement. man-made climate change is occurring and it is having devastating impacts on many people across the globe. it is therefore essential that there is a global response to this problem, especially from the developed world. the eu, which played a decisive role in building the coalition of ambition making the adoption of the paris agreement possible last december, is a global leader on climate action and needs to continue to lead the way. so far, 62 parties, accounting for almost 52% of global emissions have ratified the paris agreement, and after the council and member states ratify the agreement it will enter into force. the european commission has already brought forward the legislative proposals to deliver on the eu’s commitment to reducing emissions in the european union by at least 40% by 2030, and now work on this legislation needs to begin – but it also needs to be fair towards all sectors of society.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i support this recommendation on the paris agreement. the agreement sets out a qualitative long-term emissions reduction goal.
in writing. ‒ following an earthquake measuring 6.0 on the richter scale that affected the ionian islands in november 2015, on 5 february 2016 greece submitted an application to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. eur 1 651 834 will now be provided to greece to cope with damaged roads, buildings and other infrastructure from this earthquake which also killed two people. this fund was set up to provide assistance in instances of natural disasters in the eu member states. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to greece following the earthquake that affected the ionian islands in november 2015, and i noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as this benefits ordinary people.
in writing. ‒ i support the use of the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to provide financial assistance to greece following the earthquake that affected the ionian islands in november 2015. the earthquake reached a magnitude of 6.1 on the richter scale. two people lost their lives, eight were wounded and 120 housing units were damaged, of which 20 were considered unsuitable for living. extensive damage to infrastructure networks, buildings and cultural sites was reported. some of the most important beaches in terms of tourism were destroyed on lefkada. the proposed mobilisation would not require an amendment to the 2016 budget and a draft amending budget. providing financial assistance in this regard would undoubtedly strengthen european solidarity whilst also providing humanitarian and administrative aid.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ the european globalisation fund provides assistance to persons who have lost their jobs due to structural changes in world trade patterns. this egf application materialised when nokia initially moved production lines to the far east, then closed down some more specialised production areas and sold its mobile phone operation to microsoft in 2013. microsoft have now done the same thing. i voted in favour of activating the fund for the 2161 workers made redundant in finland.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2016/001 fi/microsoft and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it benefits ordinary workers.
in writing. ‒ i supported this application for eur 5 364 000 of egf assistance for 2161 workers and 8 suppliers and downstream producers made redundant from microsoft in finland. unfortunately, this application is a continuation of the decline of nokia, which microsoft acquired, and the knock-on impacts of the decline of the eu’s share of the ict sector, on which finland’s economy is particularly dependant. the software sector is particularly susceptible to the effects of globalisation, having become highly international, with industry competing for the same customers, and increasingly location and personnel background are having less significance. i am pleased to see that the provision of the personalised services package put together by the finnish authorities will make up 80% of the total use of the application and includes job and career coaching, training, employment and business services, start-up grants and allowances for travel and overnight costs. i am also pleased to see that the income support measures under the application amount to 16.64% of the overall package of personalised measures, which is well below the 35% limit, and that these actions are conditional on the active participation of the targeted beneficiaries in job-search or training activities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ in this case, 1 556 workers working for ericsson in sweden were made redundant due to the partial or entire closure of wireless telecom hardware production lines at various ericsson sites. the swedish company sold its entire mobile phone development and production line to competitor sony in february 2012, which has been a partial reason for job losses. further lay-offs are expected in europe. in order to avoid total devastation for these workers and the local economies in the areas they live in, i voted in favour of activating the fund.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund: application egf/2016/002 se/ericsson and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it is beneficial to workers.
in writing. ‒ i supported this application for egf assistance of eur 3 957 918 for 1 556 workers made redundant at ericsson resulting from the closure of production lines at various ericsson sites and the closure of an entire plant in one instance. the swedish authorities’ rationale for the impact of globalisation in this sector is that it has experienced outsourcing to asia which is seeing the strongest growth in the sector and their ability to provide similar quality at a lower cost. it is notable that a relatively high number of those workers made redundant are older workers who do not have the skills required in their regions’ labour markets. the package of personalised measures will include counselling and career guidance, sheltered and supported employment and rehabilitation measures, education and training and job search allowances. it is welcome that there will be a special emphasis placed on participants aged 50 and over in the provision of motivational coaching and career planning. i note that while the income support measures are high at 33.92% of the overall package of personalised measures, i believe it to be justified given the significant number of older workers concerned and the provision of individual support to participants with learning disabilities.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this waiver. the case relates to accusations about an event that occurred 20 years ago and the mep in question does not dispute the waiver. since the mep is in favour of this case being taken to court so the full details can be set out, i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to enhance the provision of legal aid to citizens across the eu. the file seeks to create a base standard for the provision of legal aid and the quality of the legal assistance provided. the file also seeks to ensure that in the case of european arrest warrants, legal aid is accessed from the issuing member state. whilst i am disappointed that the report did not include provisions for persons before their liberty is suspended, the final report is still positive and a step in the right direction.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on provisional legal aid for suspects or accused persons deprived of liberty and legal aid in european arrest warrant proceedings, and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it will increase the opportunities for justice to be done.
in writing. ‒ i, along with the majority of parliament, supported this report, which is the last of six measures on the procedural rights roadmap, which was launched in 2009. the eu already has minimum rules for the right of access to a lawyer but this new directive on legal aid will mean that all citizens can use this right and not just those who can afford it. all eu member states have national legal aid schemes but this directive will mean that eu citizens have the same minimum rights wherever they are in the eu. in addition, i was happy that there is now provisional legal aid for the initial stages of criminal proceedings and ordinary legal aid for all stages of the proceedings in line with the conditions laid down in the directive. the final outcome also includes the possibility to use a means and merits test to find out whether a person is eligible for legal aid either because they lack financial resources or because it is in the interest of justice for a particular case. this, i believe, is a fair and equitable process.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which provides rules on access to ordinary legal aid.
madam president, i was very pleased to support this resolution today and to vote with my group on all matters. this is very important and there is great credit due to marietje schaake, the rapporteur, for the good work she has done. it is somewhat incongruous that a european union that is so committed to peace and human rights across the globe would also be exporting goods which could be used for torture and capital punishment. it is absolutely right that we should move to end that practice wherever it may be. i am pleased to say that in my own country, ireland, there is no evidence of any such practice. there have been no applications made by irish companies under the regulation and the department of jobs is not aware of any of those goods being either exported or imported. i hope that will become the norm across the european union. we are trying to help in the whole area of human rights, and especially to end the death penalty, which is another manifestation of man’s inhumanity to man.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which was a revision of the 2005 anti-torture regulation, to ensure that no new technologies were allowed to slip through gaps in legislation. the ‘anti-torture regulation’ contributes to the eu policy of eliminating the death penalty worldwide, and of preventing torture. it helps achieve these goals by combining prohibitions with licensing requirements for trade in listed goods. it governs a ban of trade in ‘single-use’ torture and execution items and related technical assistance (annex ii) and an authorisation system for ‘multi-purpose’ items that could be misused for torture and executions by lethal injections (annex iii). this revision will ensure that online and offline marketing and transit of prohibited goods are also caught by legislation. clearance at eu borders will also now be necessary for certain goods such as specific chemicals.
in writing. ‒ the eu’s ban on the trade in goods or services for the purposes of inflicting cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of people, anywhere in the world, stems from a principle that should remain absolute. for this reason, and in order to better ensure that the private sector in the eu stays out of such trade, a ban on the marketing and promotion of this category of products is an important improvement in the review of the 2005 regulation. banning these goods from transiting through the eu territory is another logical corollary to this basic principle of our foreign policy, which righty encompasses dual purpose artefacts, such as crowd control implements or certain, when there is a risk that they will be used in torture or executions. loopholes in the legislation will be closed, and enforcement should be monitored more effectively. i hope the commission review, due by mid-2020, will register an improvement in the way the eu’s ban on torture goods works in practice, thanks to the present legislative changes.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1236/2005 concerning trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, and i noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this report, which updates the current anti-torture regulation and provides stricter eu rules on the trade in goods or substances that may be misused for torture and capital punishment. under the new regulation, the current ban on certain goods will be expanded to also include marketing services and the transit of already forbidden goods via the eu. moreover, these new anti-torture rules will be more flexible and can be quickly adapted to changing technologies and topical developments. the eradication of the death penalty and torture is an important goal of europe. the eu condemns the death penalty and torture everywhere. therefore, it is crucial that we have a strong and credible policy to make sure that europe does not contribute to these practices. thankfully, with these new updated rules we are broadening the scope of the regulation, making sure we include more of the worldwide trade in these products and ensure that europeans are not involved.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of controlling the export of goods that are used for torture or the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which would see the eu exchanging operational, strategic, technical and classified information with china. cooperation agreements on information exchange with certain third countries have the potential to lead to the deterioration of human rights, and should be treated with extreme caution. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on strategic cooperation between the ministry of public security of the people’s republic of china and europol and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as the agreement is more about big business than citizens.
in writing. ‒ i abstained with my group in the vote on the report on a proposal for a strategic cooperation agreement between europol and the people’s republic of china which provides for the exchange of information, excluding personal data, such as general situation reports, information on criminal investigation procedures and crime-prevention methods, training activities and the provision of advice and support in individual criminal investigations. while i have no issue with the agreement itself, the reason for my abstention is that this new agreement was proposed on the basis of the current 2009 europol decision while a newly negotiated decision between the parliament and council on the procedure for concluding international agreements has since been decided which significantly strengthens safeguards for the classification of eu documents and the protection of personal data of european citizens. it would therefore be more appropriate for this proposed agreement to be adopted after the new europol regulation has entered into force in may 2017, to ensure proper scrutiny of the agreement and the implementation of the rigorous new provisions and safeguards
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this proposed agreement to empower europol to improve law enforcement and combat terrorism.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on a legal framework for cooperation between the eu and its 28 member states, and 79 countries in sub-saharan africa, the caribbean and pacific. in financial terms, between 1975 and 2013 the acp side has received more than eur 78 billion of development aid through the european development fund (edf). however, in practice this has not materialised in sustainable development, especially in the last decade by the enhancement of asymmetric trade relations built around the so-called economic partnership agreements (epas). this report was about what direction the relationship should take into the future. as very few progressive elements were included in the final text, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the future of acp—eu relations beyond 2020 and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i support the motion for a resolution on the future of acp-eu relations beyond 2020. given the unique nature of the european union’s relationship with the african, caribbean and pacific states, i believe that we should strive for increased cooperation and partnership. i accept that the private sector could play a pivotal role in the development process and could contribute to financing development, provided investment occurs that benefits the people, for traditional ownership or use, and for the environment. i agree that eu development aid principles must be applied on an equal basis to all developing countries, and that advanced acp countries must therefore graduate out of receiving eu development aid on the same terms as non-acp countries. furthermore, a higher degree of self-financing by the acp countries would be in line with the acp ambitions to be an autonomous player, and the new agreement should include enhanced tools for building acp countries’ capacity to fund vital economic sectors.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to maintain the legally binding framework agreement based on political dialogue, cooperation and trade.
mr guoga, we take note of your comments and the relevant service will deal with that in due course. (the minutes of the previous sitting were approved)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the macroeconomic situation in greece, structural reforms and their impact, as well as prospects for future negotiations within the programme (2016/2883(rsp)).
colleagues, can i just say that there were other requests for blue cards which i refused because of time, so we had one per speaker, and i may at some stage have to restrict the cards altogether.
there is a blue-card request from mr kouloglou. will you accept it?
madam president, coming from ireland i have great sympathy for greece. like the greeks, we were in the bailout programme, but unlike greece we implemented the programme and are now getting the benefits from it. greece, unfortunately, especially the first syriza government, engaged in populist trickery which didn’t pay off. of course greeks are not the only ones to engage in that. a few weeks ago commissioner moscovici engaged in populism as well when he said that eur 13 billion of the apple tax was available to ireland to build houses and schools etc., knowing full well that it could not become available until after the court case in several years’ time; and also, on the commission’s own admission, that money may belong to other member states, not ireland, so let’s forget about populism and engage in realism. and where greece is concerned, realism means, firstly, implementing the programme; secondly, introducing reforms; and thirdly, tackling corruption. in that way, greece will gradually reach the prosperity which the great people of greece deserve after many years of austerity. it is the only way.
madam president, the bahamas leaks show that corrupt officials and politicians are not only resisting action against tax evasion and avoidance, but they are directly engaging in these practices. it is disappointing from my point of view, but not surprising, that some irish links have been exposed here. for example, billionaire denis o’brien is linked to a property development in the caribbean. his associates are acting as directors of six different companies in this tax haven. denis o’brien can use his control over large sections of the irish media, along with his enthusiasm for launching lawsuits, to intimidate those who would dare make public statements about his business dealings in order to prevent those same dealings being scrutinised. these leaks again highlight the urgent need for transparency on shell companies which are at the rotten core of the offshore scam. all countries must ensure that full registers of beneficial ownership of offshore companies, foundations and trusts are in place and open to public scrutiny. but that in itself will not be enough. we need to close the loopholes of having nominee directors of companies and dividing up company ownerships, which are used to hide the true owners. only then can we begin to say that we have learned the lessons from these leaks.
mr president, it was to your predecessor i asked to make a point of order. i just want to say that, while i have to respect his decision, he said he had eight on the list for the catch—the—eye procedure and he took only four. that was his decision, but if he had been vigilant in cutting people off when they had passed their time, he would have had plenty of time – not just for four extra speakers, but for about twenty-four. but he has made his decision and he has left. i just wanted to make that point.
mr president, october 27, 2015 was a very important day for the eu. that was the day that this parliament voted to end mobile charges and remove one of the biggest obstacles to the completion of the single market. i think it helped to showcase the benefits of eu membership, it ended major bills when people came home and encourages, therefore, people to travel. it boosts tourism and makes it easier for businesses to work in the single market. i sympathise with the people of the uk who, as a result of fear mongering and post-truth-era populist campaigning, may not get to reap the benefit of this. however, i am pleased also with the clarification on fair use. the idea that roaming should be limited to 90 days, or 30 days consecutively, was not acceptable and i am pleased that this now is being changed. we cannot have a watered-down roaming free europe. i also want to commend my colleague here alongside me, viviane reding, who has kick—started our next big challenge: ending intra-eu phone charges. it makes no sense in the current situation to have free roaming and yet to keep intra-eu phone charges, which is not acceptable. we have to work hard to get rid of this rip-off as well, and only when we have that completed, the end of roaming and the end of intra-phone charges within the eu, can we say that we are moving correctly to complete the digital single market.
mr president, i welcome the scrutiny of the international financial reporting standard (ifrs) 9, and given the concerns that have been raised, i welcome this short discussion. it is important that measures to represent big changes to the norm, particularly in the financial sector, must be given as much assessment as possible. i very much agree with the principle of what ifrs 9 seeks to achieve, namely to prevent some of the problems that we have encountered in the financial crisis by moving towards a model with banks recognising expected losses and financial assets on the balance sheet. this is a welcome step given that, until now, banks have been unable to book accounting losses until they happened, even if they could see them coming down the line. this could prevent a number of problems. what concerns me most about the introduction of the ifrs 9, however, is the uncertainty it seems to be generating in the financial sector. it is reported that two-thirds of banks are still unsure how ifrs 9 will affect their balance sheet, and i hope the european commission can offer some assurances on this issue. ensuring the same mistakes are not made again is crucial, but there is definitely a need to ensure that unintended negative effects on the economy are avoided, and i welcome the commissioner’s comments in this regard a few moments ago. finally, i just want to conclude by saying that the introduction to the ifrs 9 can hopefully find a good solution that allows ample time for the financial sector to adapt to the changes.
in writing. ‒ this was a vote to endorse the council's decision to authorise peru signing up to the hague convention of international child abduction. the convention is a multilateral treaty with the purpose of ensuring the immediate return of children wrongfully taken to or retained internationally (usually by one parent or guardian) in their home country, where domestic custody proceedings can take place. while a ruling of the ecj in 2014 found that the eu now has exclusive external competence in the field, the convention does not allow for international organisations - such as the eu - to be partners to the convention themselves. these council decisions are therefore necessary to allow particular member states which have not yet accepted the accession of the relevant countries to the convention to do so, bringing the convention into force between the entire eu and that country. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising the republic of austria and romania to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i support peru’s accession to the 1980 hague convention. the convention is the cornerstone of eu judicial cooperation in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility. two other eu member states have already accepted the accession of peru to the 1980 hague convention and should therefore not deposit a new declaration of acceptance, as the existing declaration remains valid under public international law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ this was a vote to endorse the council's decision to authorise kazakhstan signing up to the hague convention of international child abduction. the convention is a multilateral treaty with the purpose of ensuring the immediate return of children wrongfully taken to or retained internationally (usually by one parent or guardian) in their home country, where domestic custody proceedings can take place. while a ruling of the ecj in 2014 found that the eu now has exclusive external competence in the field, the convention does not allow for international organisations - such as the eu - to be partners to the convention themselves. these council decisions are therefore necessary to allow particular member states which have not yet accepted the accession of the relevant countries to the convention to do so, bringing the convention into force between the entire eu and that country. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of kazakhstan to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ kazakhstan’s accession to the hague convention is a promising development of child protection worldwide. at the international level, the european union supports the accession of third states to the 1980 convention in order for its member states to rely upon a common legal framework to deal with international child abductions. beside the general objective of developing judicial cooperation in civil matters having cross-border implications, the present proposal is linked to the general objective enshrined in article 3 of the treaty on the european union to protect the rights of the child. the proposal is also consistent with the promotion of the use of mediation in the settlement of cross-border family disputes.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ this was a vote to endorse the council's decision to authorise korea signing up to the hague convention of international child abduction. the convention is a multilateral treaty with the purpose of ensuring the immediate return of children wrongfully taken to or retained internationally (usually by one parent or guardian) in their home country, where domestic custody proceedings can take place. while a ruling of the ecj in 2014 found that the eu now has exclusive external competence in the field, the convention does not allow for international organisations - such as the eu - to be partners to the convention themselves. these council decisions are therefore necessary to allow particular member states which have not yet accepted the accession of the relevant countries to the convention to do so, bringing the convention into force between the entire eu and that country. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a council decision authorising certain member states to accept, in the interest of the european union, the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accession of the republic of korea to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the european union has set as one of its aims the promotion of the protection of the rights of the child, as stated in article 3 of the treaty on european union, and by supporting korea’s accession we encourage other nations to follow suit.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
mr president, i supported this proposal, sharing the rapporteur’s belief that policy coherence, with the focus on sustainable agriculture, is central to ending hunger by 2030. eradicating poverty and hunger are integrally linked to boosting food production, agricultural productivity and rural incomes. from an irish perspective, i can appreciate the emphasis placed on local food production and share the believe that agricultural systems worldwide must become more productive and less wasteful. this report outlines the ways and means by which such integrated decision-making processes, at national and regional levels, can adequately address trade—offs – among them agriculture and climate change. we find ourselves at a pivotal stage where the effects of climate change will demand greater collaboration between member states to recognise and address the role of climate—resilient agriculture and food systems in combating nutrition and security. i therefore supported the recommendations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which deals with food poverty, malnutrition and their causes in the developing world. the right to food can only be fully achieved when poverty and inequality are drastically reduced and resilience to shocks is enhanced. rights-based public policies and effective measures to combat land grabbing in developing countries, including through concrete options to ensure land tenure security, are essential for attaining global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it is essential for the basic standards of living to made universal.
in writing. ‒ i supported the resolution on attaining global goals and eu commitments on nutrition and food security in the world. the resolution calls for accelerated action to fulfil the 2030 agenda and to reach sustainable development goals 2 to end hunger, while it also insists on the development of social safety nets in order to reduce extreme poverty. as the level of investment in nutrition remains inadequate (with nutrition-specific interventions receiving only 0.57% of global oda aid in 2014, meeting only 1.4% of the total needs) the resolution calls for additional eu commitment of eur 1 billion addressing nutrition-specific interventions. i believe that there is an absolute urgency to reach internationally agreed nutrition targets. inadequate nutrition is one of the most significant impediments to human development. i was also happy to support an amendment, which called for the right of local food producers to have control over their land, seeds and water and also reject the privatisation of natural resources.
the president again had a debate on this subject before he left parliament. you'd go to see laws about what we should do and how we should do it and how we should do it and how we should do it and how we should do it and how we should do it and how we should do it. i had no chance to speak to myself but i have a chance now. i think i have to tell you that we have to do everything we can to stop the witchcraft of all the witches. they're just coming from the state, from different groups, from different industries, from different people. the eu is a member of the european union, but it is not a member of the european union. the european union is committed to the protection of the rights of the child and to the protection of the rights of the child.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which would authorise the council reopening negotiations with the european parliament on the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office. sinn féin is opposed to the concept of a european public prosecutor’s office as it would constitute a greater centralisation of judicial autonomy in the eu at the expense of member states’ judicial structures. there remain serious concerns around the coordination, cost and management of the creation of an eppo and its potential relationship with existing public prosecution offices. the resolution calls on eurojust and eppo to assume the trappings of a federal investigative force and calls for ‘sufficient investigative measures’ to be made available to the eppo. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the european public prosecutor’s office and eurojust and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution for a number of reasons. in july 2013, the commission presented a regulation based on article 86 tfeu on the establishment of a european public prosecutor’s office or eppo. the eppo was proposed to fill the institutional gap that currently exists, as only national authorities can prosecute eu fraud but they cannot do this across national borders, which is a serious defect considering the internal market and the free movement of money. also, considering that the eppo is being adopted under the consent procedure, which means that the parliament will have to say ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the text that the member states agree on, it is vital that a resolution is passed giving the institution’s position on it. thankfully, the resolution highlights the need for the eppo to be efficient and independent, and its scope and competences should be based on the directive on the fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law (pif directive). it is estimated by the european commission that fraud against the eu’s financial interests costs around eur 3 billion every year. the creation of the eppo is essential to ensure that fraud against the eu’s financial interests is tackled equally in all member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
mr president, as a co-author of this report, i am very pleased with the eventual outcome and the huge majority that voted in favour of it, because it sends a very strong message to workers – especially in caterpillar and alstom – that we stand in solidarity with them. it is not just the preserve of one particular group: my group (the epp) and others understand their plight very well and stand with them, especially the workers in northern ireland who are also affected. this points out to us that we really have to focus on our target of reindustrialising europe and getting 20% of gdp from industry. to do that, we have to tackle the challenges: first, competition from abroad – from outside europe; second, climate change; third, finance; and fourth, skill shortages. if we do that, i think we can have a friendly environment for industry and progress and really reindustrialise europe.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. sinn féin met with caterpillar workers and representatives, including those from the north of ireland, and in view of the situation as they explained it, we drafted a strong alternative motion which put the workers at its heart. in trying to find agreement for a joint motion with the other groups in parliament, the strong references to workers’ rights were watered down by those on the right of parliament. in conjunction with this, the right of parliament not only managed to remove the workers as central, but they shaped the motion in a way which put employers and shareholders at the centre. additionally, the references to the europe 2020 strategy which runs in line with the european semester means that many of the amendments linked to europe 2020 cannot be achieved because countries are in fiscal straitjackets. these, as well as other problematic articles, meant that i could not support the joint resolution as a whole. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the joint motion for a resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it is essential that workers are not the pawns of the multinationals.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this joint resolution on the need for a european reindustrialisation policy in light of the recent caterpillar and alstom cases (2016/2891(rsp)). this resolution expresses strong solidarity and support to all workers of caterpillar and alstom and their families, as well as the subcontractors involved. it highlights the detrimental effects that such closures have on local economies and communities and calls for measures to be taken to support these workers and their local economies and to assist these regions in overcoming this difficult economic and social situation. furthermore, it reminds us that the economic crisis in europe demonstrated that industries that invest the most notably in innovation, r&d, energy efficiency, circular economy etc. are those who resisted the crisis the most. i was particularly pleased to support the call on the commission to inform parliament on its strategy for the main industrial sectors in europe, namely the rail supply sector and the machinery sector, in order to create a more favourable market environment, on what it intends to do to keep quality employment, know-how and investments in europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for resolution which aims to address the significant economic challenges member states face in an ever changing global market place.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, it was a great pleasure for me to attend in paris last year, especially as it ended in success with the historic cop21 agreement. i think the european union played a huge part in laying the foundations for it and in showing leadership, particularly under commissioner cañete, in that. it was great yesterday to see the ratification process being signed here by our president, mr schulz, in the presence of ban ki-moon, secretary-general of the united nations. we can look forward with confidence to marrakesh in november. i think that marrakesh can be seen as the cop22 of action. at long last, we are in the position to actually transfer agreements, commitments into action. the european union will play a very important part, and in this we need to show especially diplomatic leadership, because we can do all we like here in the european union, we could have targets to reduce carbon emissions to zero, but unless the world does the same, it is not going to have an impact. we can help, especially in ensuring all countries fulfil their commitments. we can also help in making the technology that we will utilise in relation to renewable energies, energy efficiencies, ets, you name it, available to third countries. i think we can look forward with optimism, but also we have to be conscious of the fact that we have three targets here in europe. firstly, to meet our targets in relation to climate change; secondly, to reindustrialise europe – we had a motion for a resolution on that today – and thirdly, to maintain our competitiveness. we will not have to worry that much about carbon leakage if there is a global agreement, because that will establish a global level playing field, and i think it will make everybody happy that this can be done by increasing jobs and growth and at the same time saving the climate for future generations.
mr president, the fact that andy hall is here, and i welcome him and commend him on his courage, is i suppose indicative that this is a rather unusual resolution. most of the people we have resolutions about are locked up and tortured, etc., but at the same time, the issue is very important because, as has been said, it is not really about andy hall at all, it is about the broader implications of his case and the attempt to discourage people from defending human rights when they are abused, and from defending the rights of migrant workers. so i think we have to put extra pressure on the thai authorities to amend the computer crimes act and also the law on defamation. this is not right or proper and, because of our relationship with thailand, the eeas here should be in a position to put greater pressure on them to ensure that there is fair play for everybody, especially migrant workers, and also to ensure the conviction of andy hall is overturned.
go raibh maith agat to the uachtaráin. i voted for my group in the august vote, but that's not the case. again, i was very happy to speak to my group about a subject that had been going on since the night of the murder, about four hours after the murder. but there are many other things that are important: we will take every opportunity to give our customers money and if there are any problems, we will address them as soon as possible, and we can take action accordingly. so we're trying to balance the difference between the two, and i think that's a good thing. i think that's a good thing. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for resolution on international financial reporting standards and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ ifrs 9 is a financial instrument that constitutes one of the major responses of the iasb to the financial crisis. i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls on the commission, together with the european supervisory agencies (esas), the ecb, the european systemic risk board (esrb) and efrag, closely to monitor the implementation of ifrs 9 in the eu and to prepare an ex-post impact assessment. this assessment is to be produced no later than june 2019 and presented to the european parliament for action in accordance with our views.
go raibh maith agat to the uachtaráin. the report was supported by the member states and the group voted in favour of the report in all the votes cast outside the six-month period. i'm going to vote for you. but even without that, we are all united about the tragedy that is happening in syria and especially the amount that is being suffered in syria, there is no dealramh laws. and also, it's a shame we all have a role to play in russia's syria. nil se féaráilte agus is ar mhaithe leo féin atá siad ag obair ansin. (nil is not happy and is not happy) so it's important that we use every opportunity we have to stop breaking the law. freisin, is proud to have been born in niamh and to have worked with samuel beckett, to work in the mediterranean to save people who were in syria to come to europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the situation in syria, which focused on the disastrous humanitarian crisis happening there. it called for aid, for the prevention of all acts of violence against citizens and for a peaceful negotiated settlement of the situation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for resolution on the situation in syria and noted no objections. i fully support a resolution to the conflict.
in writing. ‒ i voted against, as reasonable amendments were not accepted.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that seeks to provide solutions to the ongoing conflict in syria.
mr president, i was very honoured to attend, on behalf of parliament, the cop21 in paris with the historic global agreement. i will be very honoured to attend cop22 in marrakesh, morocco, especially after we have ratified the agreement here in parliament, signed in the presence of ban ki-moon by our president, mr schulz. there is no doubt that this is the really big challenge because, if we do not save the planet, all other problems will disappear because the planet will not exist and people will not be able to live here. i am glad about the progress we are making and very pleased with the leadership that has been shown by the commission and by the european union generally and hope that will continue. i am of course also pleased that in my own country a great deal of research is being undertaken to come up with innovative solutions cognisant of climate change, especially in the area of sustainable agriculture, something which is not often recognised. this is the way to go.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. whilst the report contained some positive points on the very important issue of climate change, it also sees the much derided concept of emissions trading as an important tool in the future of fighting climate change. in europe, the eu’s own emissions trading scheme is widely accepted as being a very costly failure for eu climate change policy which has not brought the significant emissions reductions required and indeed promised. the eu ets has not been cost-effective and has subsidised polluters with taxpayers’ money with its oversupply of allowances to power companies, many of which are being given ‘free’ to these companies
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the 2016 un climate change conference in marrakesh, morocco (cop22) and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ given that, according to scientific evidence, warming of the climate system is unequivocal, i support the implementation of the paris agreement. i agree that global emissions of carbon dioxide should be phased out by 2050 or shortly thereafter. member states are urged to implement their national decarbonisation targets and strategies by prioritising the phasing-out of emissions from coal, which is the most polluting source of energy. it is a cause for concern that 166 million people were forced to leave their homes because of floods, windstorms, earthquakes or other disasters between 2008 and 2015 and i believe that the issue of climate refugees should be recognised by the eu. that being said, i welcome the eu’s continued focus on climate diplomacy, and that the eu has committed itself to ratification of the paris agreement as soon as possible and to using its international role to seek progress towards the quick ratification and implementation of the paris agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. the paris agreement commits all countries to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°c above pre-industrial levels and its objectives are to be upheld in cop22.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the food contact materials regulation. this report deals with food contact materials, which mainly means food packaging (but can also refer to food utensils or factories where food is made), and eu regulation or lack thereof covering these products. currently only 4 out of 17 of the fcms identified for measures are actually regulated, which means there is are a lot of packaging substances, e.g. printing ink, paper, metal, adhesives and varnishes, which are not covered. there is increasing concern regarding the migration of chemicals from food contact materials into the food we eat. this can be exacerbated by various factors, including the length of time packaging has contact with the food, the ratio of surface area of food to the material, whether the product is heated, and whether the foods are surrounded by liquids or high-fat substances. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the consumption of junk food might not be unsafe in the short term, but healthy food may also present long-term risks if carried in packaging which itself contains unsafe substances. there is a range of items that come into contact with the food we eat every day, in the form of wrapping, packages or utensils used to prepare and consume our meals. food is indeed one the most significant sources of human exposure to chemicals, and we estimate the number of substances coming into contact with it at around 15 000. so this was a timely assessment of the state of the applicable legislation. we need more eu-level measures to better protect all consumers in the european markets from risks posed by such substances. the impact of inks, glues and coatings, as well as substances present in recycled paper and cardboard, has been underestimated, and the combined effect of various substances present in the same item remains absent from the european food safety authority’s risk assessments. the presence of endocrine disruptors in food contact materials is a particularly sensitive issue, given the serious risk to human health that chemicals such as bisphenol a can pose. a full ban is in order.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the implementation of the food contact materials regulation and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of amendment no 1 after recital f as it makes sense that the opinions of national governments should take precedence.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report and i am happy that it got the support of the parliament. food contact materials (fcms) are largely used in everyday life in the form of food packaging, kitchen utensils, tableware, etc. however, when in contact with food, and depending on their composition and properties, the different materials may behave differently, transferring their constituents to the food. in such cases, chemicals emanating from fcms may endanger human health or adversely change the composition of the foodstuffs. the report points to the fact that the level of enforcement of the legislation on fcms differs widely throughout the eu and highlights the importance of developing eu guidelines for fcms which would facilitate a more uniform implementation and better enforcement in the member states. thankfully, the report also calls on the commission to ensure better coordination between reach and fcm legislation, especially as regards substances classified as substances of very high concern (svhcs) under reach, and to ensure that harmful substances already phased out under reach are also phased out in fcms.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which seeks to harmonise law regarding food contact materials, incorporating paper, cardboard and other such materials.
mr president, my friend and colleague, mrs morvai, made an interesting point when she said that we had too many european regulations. in some respects she reflects what commission president mr juncker has said, because he said that henceforth we will only regulate from europe where absolutely necessary. but, at the same time, there is no point in having european union law if it is not applied. obviously there have been cases where that has not happened and indeed there have been widespread examples of fraud. that is certainly something that has to be combated. i am very pleased that in the recent analysis my own country came out very well in regard to the application of european law. that is something that should apply everywhere. i think it is absolutely vital that we continue to monitor the application of european law and only regulate when necessary. but, when we do so, it has to be applied fairly and evenly across all member states with no exceptions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which sets out the application of eu law in the member states for the year 2014. the main focus of the report is the fact that there has been a general decrease in the number of formal infringement proceedings, due to the new pilot procedure which allows the commission to open dialogue with member states before taking official proceedings. this is a good process, which allows member states to explain or rationalise legislative choices they make when transposing eu law. it means there are fewer instances of the commission imposing on countries’ sovereign right to choose how to implement new rules.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on monitoring the application of union law: 2014 annual report, and i noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ the european parliament plays a crucial role in the application of european union law. it has a major role in overseeing the application of union law to ensure that it is enforced correctly and fairly. i believe that parliament itself should play a stronger role in the analysis of how accession countries and countries with association agreements with the european union comply with eu law, and should provide those countries with suitable assistance. i support the suggestion that parliament should draft proper reports, not simply resolutions, on all candidate countries in response to the annual progress reports released by the commission. sincere cooperation between the commission and parliament is essential for the smooth application of european law and is something i strongly support.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report that recommends a regulation on european administrative procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these objections to gmo authorisations. the european commission has yet to propose a new authorisation procedure since its very weak proposal was rejected earlier this year. in spite of the fact that the ep called for a new proposal, the commission continues to authorise gmos under a flawed procedure which they themselves have admitted does not work. for these reasons i voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this objection as i support the efsa and the european commission's scientific gmo authorisation procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe gmo crops are a threat to our existence.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection because there are concerns that the implementing decision by the commission is not compatible with union law and there are concerns over the efsa risk management process. more specifically, the commission bases its argument for authorisation on the concept of a level of ‘acceptable local mortality’ of non-target lepidopteran species (butterflies and moths), which is considered by some to be a flawed interpretation of efsa advice. in addition, there is the possibility of cross-contamination with an ancient maize variety that carries major risks for farmers and the environment. for all of the above reasons i voted in favour of the objection, plus the fact that i do not support the introduction of gmos into the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these objections to gmo authorisations. the european commission has yet to propose a new authorisation procedure since its very weak proposal was rejected earlier this year. in spite of the fact that the ep called for a new proposal, the commission continues to authorise gmos under a flawed procedure which they themselves have admitted does not work. for these reasons i voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this objection as i support the efsa and the european commission's scientific gmo authorisation procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe gmo crops are a threat to our existence.
in writing. ‒ i supported this objection for a number of reasons. firstly, i have concerns with the implementing decision by the commission as it is may not be compatible with union law, while there are concerns over the efsa risk management procedure. more specifically, the achieved genetic modification of the maize seed can lead to a resistance to glyphosate. the commission bases its argument for authorisation on the concept of a level of ‘acceptable local mortality’ of non-target lepidopteran species (butterflies and moths) which is considered by some to be a flawed interpretation of efsa advice. in addition, there is the possibility of cross-contamination with an ancient maize variety that carries major risks for farmers and the environment. for all of the above reasons i voted in favour of the objection, plus the fact that i do not support the introduction of gmos into the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these objections to gmo authorisations. the european commission has yet to propose a new authorisation procedure since its very weak proposal was rejected earlier this year. in spite of the fact that the ep called for a new proposal, the commission continues to authorise gmos under a flawed procedure which they themselves have admitted does not work. for these reasons i voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this objection as i support the efsa and the european commission's scientific gmo authorisation procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe gmo crops are a threat to our existence.
in writing. ‒ i, along with the majority of the parliament, supported this objection. i have concerns with the implementing decision by the commission as it is may not be compatible with union law, while there are concerns over the efsa risk management procedure. more specifically, the achieved genetic modification of the maize seed can lead to a resistance to glyphosate. the commission bases its argument for authorisation on the concept of a level of ‘acceptable local mortality’ of non-target lepidopteran species (butterflies and moths) which is considered by some to be a flawed interpretation of efsa advice. in addition, there is the possibility of cross-contamination with an ancient maize variety that carries major risks for farmers and the environment. for all of the above reasons i voted in favour of the objection, plus the fact that i do not support the introduction of gmos into the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these objections to gmo authorisations. the european commission has yet to propose a new authorisation procedure since its very weak proposal was rejected earlier this year. in spite of the fact that the ep called for a new proposal, the commission continues to authorise gmos under a flawed procedure which they themselves have admitted does not work. for these reasons i voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this objection as i support the efsa and the european commission's scientific gmo authorisation procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe gm crops are a threat to our existence.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because, as with the other votes on gmo maize, i believe that the commission’s implementing decision is not compatible with union law. as well as that, there was no agreement among member states in the standing committee to approve this product, mainly due to the lack of long-term feeding and toxicity studies and to insufficient risk assessment studies. finally, considering the parliament had already rejected the commission proposal of 22 april 2015 for a new gmo sales and use policy and asked them to come forward with a new policy, i believe that it does not make sense to authorise gmo products. for all of the above reasons i voted in favour of the objection, plus the fact that i do not support the introduction of gmos into the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of these objections to gmo authorisations. the european commission has yet to propose a new authorisation procedure since its very weak proposal was rejected earlier this year. in spite of the fact that the ep called for a new proposal, the commission continues to authorise gmos under a flawed procedure which they themselves have admitted does not work. for these reasons i voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this objection as i support the efsa and the european commission's scientific gmo authorisation procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe gm crops are a threat to our existence.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection because i believe the commission’s implementing decision is not compatible with union law. as well as that, there was no agreement among member states in the standing committee to approve this product, mainly due to the lack of long-term feeding and toxicity studies and insufficient risk assessment studies. i would also like to stress there are still important data gaps in the risk assessment of these gm maize crops and authorising their release in the environment would contradict the precautionary principle. for all of the above reasons i voted in favour of the objection, plus the fact that i do not support the introduction of gmos into the european union.
mr president, firstly, i must say that, looking back over the last two years when president juncker announced his efsi plan, many people very dubious and when vice-president katainen was handed what many saw as the poison chalice, they felt that this could not actually be successful. but he has worked very hard on the area, he has visited all over europe and here in strasbourg and in brussels. as a result, it has actually been very successful, and only today it was announced that efsi has helped to create 830 000 jobs – it is worth repeating, 830 000 jobs! he deserves great credit for that, as does the commission, because if it had failed, they would have been criticised and ridiculed, which many people expected. so now that it has started, the momentum is behind it and people will believe in it. i think you will get far more investment, especially when he introduces regulatory reform to undo or eliminate any obstacles there for the private sector to invest. that is going to be very important, and also of course we recently passed the creation of the capital markets union, and that is going to make a huge difference in terms of new models and creating new ways of financing. so those three aspects – efsi, regulatory reform, and the capital markets union – are going to be wonderful in terms of creating sustainable finance into the future. also i was delighted to hear him in his opening remarks refer to green financing. of course, the climate has changed dramatically for that in the past 12 months, as a result of the paris agreement and now marrakesh, where the agreement will be actually turned into action. so it will be imperative to invest in the green economy; it will be the only show in town and that should unlock huge opportunities for businesses, and for europe, indeed, to become a world leader. so, well done to vice-president katainen and everyone involved. they deserve credit; they do not always get it.
mr president, as a member of the iranian delegation, i have had ample opportunities to have delegations coming, under our chairman lewandowski, to discuss many of the issues raised here this evening. i think, on balance, we are getting the right approach. we have to say that the nuclear agreement – and the european commission played a very important part in it – was one of the great achievements in recent times. that probably, and cop21, were the two greatest national agreements in recent times. iran has come a long way, because they stepped back from the nuclear armament because they trusted those of us who were involved in negotiating. now we have to deliver in terms of economic cooperation but also, as has been pointed out very strongly, a very firm hand must be held with them with regard to human rights and especially the death penalty, which is over-used, without any doubt (if it can ever be justified), in their state. so i think we are on the right track, but economic cooperation and human rights together is the best way forward.
mr president, and thank you for taking us all in the catch-the-eye, because this is a very important topic for us, especially those who come from small countries like mine – ireland, which is an island. with the exception of the temporary supply of gas from the corrib gas field, we are totally dependent on our gas coming from one interconnector from the united kingdom. what is going to happen us if and when the united kingdom leaves the european union? for that reason lng is so important to us, and there are proposals to build a terminal in shannon, which has been very much helped by many of the far-sighted policies of commissioner cañete, and also the good work here of my colleague, mr gyürk. without doubt it is essential for us to diversify supply, secure supply and, of course, also avail of cheaper prices as a result of it. as has been said, we want to be the renewable capital of the world, but at the same time they are intermittent, and gas is the ideal backup to renewables. so it is a win-win, but we have to get lng into as many countries in europe as possible.
mr president, i must say i learned an awful lot from listening to the rapporteur, ms thomas, and i congratulate her and thank her for what she said, because i have had several queries from fishermen and women in ireland about the exact issues that she raised. and she explained why it is so: it is because the laws are transposed differently; there are voluntary aspects to it. training is different for inspectors across europe; training is different for fishermen; the penalties are different. now, for what is called a common fisheries policy, that makes absolutely no sense. but it does explain the fact that, in my country at least, many of the fishing communities feel that the inspectorates especially go overboard and that these issues are probably gold-plated at national level. so there is need for harmonisation across europe, and i think she has put her finger on the exact difficulty we have, and if we do that, then we can have a better and more equal system. i will just give you just one example. recently dolphins were found dead off the irish coast with ropes tied onto them, and the feeling is that the big super-trawlers are getting away with it while the smaller people are being pursued.
mr president, 2016 could well be remembered as the year of the populist, or maybe i should say the year of the destroyer, because there is not much difference between populism, as we see it, and destruction. brexit is an example: the motivating factor was to destroy the european union and give the united kingdom supposedly back its sovereignty. the result: sterling has dropped 18%; inflation on the rise; companies either leaving or planning to leave the united kingdom; in my country, the threat to the peace process, which has been underwritten by the european institutions for so many years. the same is happening in america, with mr trump and his populism, talking about banning mexicans and islamists and building walls, appealing to the lowest common denominator. even here in europe, we have it with ceta: the best trade agreement ever done, with one of the finest democracies in the world, and we cannot get through a local parliament, based again on unfounded fears. it is time to end populism.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. this implementing council decision follows from the 2008 prüm decision on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the supply of personal data provided for under that decision may not take place until the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision. these include: (i) an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, (ii) an evaluation visit and (iii) a pilot run. denmark has met these conditions. these two council implementing decisions authorise the automated exchange of dna and dactyloscopic (fingerprints) data to and from denmark. sinn fein has always voted against prüm and its implementing decisions as it is based on a unilateral repressive and surveillance-based approach.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dna data in denmark and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council implementing decision to launch the automated data exchange with regard to dna data in denmark. according to decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, the supply of personal data provided for under that decision may not take place until the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision are adhered to. council decision 2008/616/jha on the implementation of decision 2008/615/jha confirms that the above condition has been met with respect to automated data exchange on the basis of: (i) an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, (ii) an evaluation visit and (iii) a pilot run. denmark completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dna data exchange. a successful pilot run was carried out by denmark with the netherlands. an evaluation visit also took place in denmark. an overall evaluation report was presented in which the council concluded, on 12 july 2016, that denmark had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. this implementing decision aims to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha as from the date of the entry into force of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections against it.
in writing. ‒ this implementing council decisions follow from the 2008 prüm decision on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime. the supply of personal data provided for under that decision may not take place until the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision. these include: (i) an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, (ii) an evaluation visit and (iii) a pilot run. denmark has met these conditions. these two council implementing decisions authorise the automated exchange of dna and dactyloscopic (fingerprints) data to and from denmark. sinn fein has always voted against prüm and its implementing decisions as it is based on a unilateral repressive and surveillance-based approach.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision on the launch of automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in denmark and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this council implementing decision to launch the automated data exchange with regard to dactyloscopic data in denmark. according to decision 2008/615/jha on the stepping up of cross-border cooperation, particularly in combating terrorism and cross-border crime, the supply of personal data provided for under that decision may not take place until the general provisions on data protection set out in that decision. council decision 2008/616/jha on the implementation of decision 2008/615/jha confirms that the above conditions have been met with respect to automated data exchange on the basis of: (i) an evaluation report based on a questionnaire, (ii) an evaluation visit and (iii) a pilot run. denmark completed the questionnaire on data protection and the questionnaire on dactyloscopic data exchange. a successful pilot run has been carried out by denmark with germany. an evaluation visit also took place in denmark. an overall evaluation report was presented in which the council concluded that denmark had fully implemented the general provisions on data protection. this draft council implementing decision aims, for the purposes of automated searching of dactyloscopic data, to authorise denmark to receive and supply personal data pursuant to decision 2008/615/jha as from the date of the entry into force of this decision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections against it.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. under council regulation (ec) no 539/2001, china is among those countries whose nationals are required to hold a visa when travelling to the schengen area. eu citizens also need a visa to enter china. the migration and mobility dialogue between the eu and china is the framework under which both parties exchange views and discuss possibilities for cooperation on issues of mutual interest on their respective migration policies. this dialogue was established in october 2013, and it was agreed to initiate negotiations for a reciprocal visa—waiver agreement for holders of diplomatic passports, and it resulted in an agreement in november 2015. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or an eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. while i am in favour of reducing restrictions on travel but have serious concerns about china’s human rights situation, i did not vote in favour but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the people’s republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement between the european union and the people’s republic of china on the short-stay visa waiver for holders of diplomatic passports. the agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the union holding a valid diplomatic passport or an eu laissez-passer and for citizens of china holding a valid diplomatic passport when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this is significant and will bring tangible benefits to both sides. the fact that the proposed agreement also covers, for the first time, the holders of european union’s ‘laissez-passer’ is very welcome. i believe that this represents a step forward in the establishment of full reciprocal visa waiver for holders of ordinary passports. it will facilitate people—to-people contact – an essential condition for the steady development of economic, cultural, scientific and other ties and will intensify contacts between people. i also believe that visa liberalisation should go hand-in-hand with improvements in respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. however, i was happy that the rapporteur queried the practice of signing visa waiver agreements and applying them provisionally before the european parliament has approved them.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections against it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. the commission proposed amending the regulation relating to financial management for member states experiencing serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. as national budgets are under strain, it may be hard for countries experiencing budgetary difficulty to find sufficient funds for national co-financing of regional policy projects. the proposed regulation allows the commission to make increased payments under esif programmes to these countries. at the request of a member state, interim payments may be increased by 10 percentage points above the co-financing rate applicable to each priority for the european regional development fund (erdf), european social fund (esf) and the cohesion fund, or to each measure for the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) and the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff). the ‘top-up’ does not change the overall esif allocations in 2014-2020. this concerns the case of greece. for the case of cyprus, the commission proposed that the period of eligibility for cyprus for the co-financing rate of 85% will continue until the closure of the 2014-2020 programmes. this will give cyprus more time to balance its budget and at the same time run the erdf and esf projects.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i was very happy to support the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1303/2013 as regards certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. the proposal for a regulation amends the common provision regulation of european structural and investment funds, with the aim of increasing the co-financing rate for interim payments from 85% to 95% (top—up) for greece and from 50% to 85% for cyprus regarding funds from erdf and esf until both programmes close. i am happy that the commission proposal is focused and neutral in terms of budget and will help to solve temporary liquidity problems faced by the two member states. thankfully, there is no impact on the mff annual ceilings for commitments and payments.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive immunity in this instance. the mep in question was recorded making violently anti-semitic remarks in a 2014 video. sinn féin stands against racism and hate speech of any kind. the waiver will allow the national office for vigilance against anti-semitism in france to bring a case against him.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of jean-marie le pen and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of this ukip mep, who is accused of making defamatory and libellous statements against three labour mps with regard to an ongoing criminal and administrative inquiry. as the statements were not made in the course of this mep’s parliamentary duties, i voted to waive her immunity so that parties could be given the opportunity to establish the truth and clear their names, if need be by due process of law.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for defence of the privileges and immunities of jane collins and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted to waive the immunity of this mep, who made a series of racial slurs following the appointment of a congolese-born minister for integration in italy. it is unacceptable for statements inciting racial or ethnic hatred to be made by anyone, most of all in the public sphere. for these reasons, i voted in favour of waiving immunity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for defence of the privileges and immunities of mario borghezio and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ this is an ordinary legislative procedure, at second reading, for amending the existing regulation to update and simplify the existing legal framework for european statistics on rail transport, including increasing the collection of general statistics (not personal data) on the transport of goods and passengers by rail, and on rail safety. the changes include establishing appropriate cooperation agreements between the commission and relevant entities. data collection requirements are set out for member states. this report is a technical part of the fourth railway package, which, as a whole, moves towards a single more competitive, liberalised railway sector, which sinn fein opposes. however, i am not opposed to the collection of statistics. i voted against the ukip amendment to reject this report (only that amendment was put to the vote).
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 91/2003 on rail transport statistics, as regards the collection of data on goods, passengers and accidents, and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted against an amendment to reject this report and close the legislative procedure. thankfully, this was defeated in plenary and the second reading was successful. the existing legislative framework (regulations (ec) nos 91/2003, 1192/2003, and 332/2007) for the generation of union rail transport statistics sets up a double system, offering the possibility for ‘detailed reporting’ and ‘simplified reporting’. the data collected contain information on passenger and goods transport, as well as on traffic flows and accidents. the commission proposal’s primary aim is to update, simplify and optimise the existing system. that information is necessary to monitor and develop the eu transport policy. having sound rail transport statistics is necessary and important for monitoring rail transport and its development. i welcome the simplification of the reporting procedure and favour the extension of data collection to include rail infrastructure. the text agreed in the trilogue is accompanied by an amendment to the existing memorandum of understanding between eurostat and the european railway agency, to include statistics on the deployment of the european rail traffic management system (ertms), and by a memorandum of understanding between eurostat and dg move to ensure that there is better data sharing and no duplication of data collection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. an existing directive lays down conditions and technical requirements for issuing navigation certificates for inland waterway vessels valid on all community inland waterways, including the rhine. the collection of statistical data is important in creating a sound basis for future decisions regarding the inland waterway transport sector. the data are needed to assess passenger vessel traffic – which has increased over the last few years, in particular on the danube – as well as the technical improvements to vessels leading to ‘cleaner ships’. the rapporteur proposed to take this opportunity to extend the regulation’s scope to include additional variables on the transport of passengers, the modernisation of the fleet and inland waterway infrastructure. there was general agreement that it was important for the sector not to be overburdened by the increased data to be provided, and that there should be an assessment of data collected within other frameworks in order to avoid duplication. the first reading was in march 2014, and ongoing negotiations were pursued through trilogues until july this year.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation for second reading on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics on goods transport by inland waterway as regards the conferral of delegated and implementing powers on the commission for the adoption of certain measures, and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report at second reading, as did most members of parliament, although no official vote was recorded. this regulation aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1365/2006 on statistics of goods transport by inland waterways as regards conferring of delegated and implementing powers upon the commission for the adoption of certain measures. it is now proposed to:- empower the commission to adopt delegated acts in order to adapt the threshold for statistical coverage of inland waterways transport, to adapt the definitions and adopt additional definitions, as well as to adopt delegated acts in order to adjust the scope of data collection and the content of the annexes;- confer implementing powers on the commission with a view to ensuring uniform conditions concerning the arrangements for transmitting data to the commission (eurostat), including data interchange standards, and for the dissemination of results by the commission (eurostat), and to developing and publishing methodological requirements and criteria designed to ensure the quality of the data produced, in accordance with the examination procedure laid down in article 5 of regulation (eu) no 182/2011. following the first-reading vote, parliament added a request for new data collection covering passengers, in addition to the data on goods transported, which are already collected under the regulation currently in force.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the grounds that it amounts to a transfer of justice powers away from member states and to the commission. the underlying concern behind this commission proposal is an assumption that different customs sanctions regimes in the 28 member states create distortions and, in particular, encourage importers to operate in those member states with the lowest penalties. this concern is shared by some wto members, who claim there can be no customs union without a unified sanctions system. the council stalled the proposal which was presented by the commission two years ago. the committee on the internal market amended the commission proposal on several points, the key one being that the commission proposal tried to harmonise both administrative and criminal sanctions, while parliament only proposes administrative sanctions and leaves criminal sanctions subject to national legislation. however, the text also determines how judges should calculate the fines, leaving no judicial discretion. the effects of this proposal on national criminal systems are not sufficiently investigated, but are likely to be significant. as i believe justice powers must remain as a competence of the member states, i voted against the overall report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision not to vote on the legislative resolution on this matter.
in writing. ‒ i was very happy to support this report on the union legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions. the proposal aims to establish a framework for breaches of the union’s customs legislation and provide for penalties applicable where there are infringements. despite the fact that customs legislation is fully harmonised, its enforcement and the lawful imposition of sanctions lie within the ambit of member states' national law. within the eu, the different enforcement of customs legislation makes the effective management of the customs union harder. for economic operators, the differences in the treatment of infringements of union customs legislation have an impact on the level playing field, thus providing an advantage for those who breach the law in a member state with lenient legislation for customs sanctions. unfortunately, member states have not been very receptive to the commission proposal. thankfully, the rapporteur has tried to find a broad compromise on these issues and i was happy that her proposal provides for the imposition of non-criminal sanctions for the customs infringements set out in the draft law, which clarifies the interlink between this proposal and the pif directive. in addition, member states would be entitled to impose criminal sanctions, in accordance with national laws and eu law.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. while of course i support the safety of employees and workers in the institutions given the context of the brussels attacks earlier this year, i do not believe an increase in armed security in the institutions is an appropriate or effective solution. further, at the budget committee level, there was no access to detailed information on this proposal nor was there any open or participative debate about the proposal and its effect.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: security of the institutions and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the council amendment to the budget to increase the security of the institutions. the recent terror attacks have led the union institutions to review their security needs and to identify the need for additional resources already in 2016. draft amending budget no 3/2016 consequently proposed to reinforce the budget for security by a total amount of eur 15.8 million in the european schools, the european parliament, the european commission, the court of justice, the european court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions and the european external action service. i believe this is required and that all institutions should be adequately secured. in particular, the amendment aims to create 35 additional permanent posts for the recruitment of additional security agents in the european parliament. these posts should be maintained in the 2017 budget and exempt from the 5% staff reduction target, as they correspond to a new activity.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of reinforcing the budget for security in several of the eu institutions.
mr president, as a member of the iranian delegation it was a pleasure to attend the debate here last night and indeed to observe the very pertinent and proper concerns expressed by members regarding human rights in iran. having said that, it is also important to recognise the progress made and the road which iran has travelled in getting the nuclear accord, so for that reason, as we move forward, we have to engage with iran and develop trade relations so that economically it can benefit. history shows that where there is economic benefit there is a greater tendency to move towards human rights so the two can go in tandem: economic relations being developed between the eu and iran, but also, as many amendments pointed out today, their need to reform, especially in relation to human rights and the death penalty.
in writing. ‒ sinn féin supports dialogue and the normalisation of diplomatic relations with iran, one of the main premises of this report. the report also reiterated support for human rights and called for iran to take steps to address this where it is lacking. however there were a number of problems with this report which raised significant concerns. it called for the liberalisation of iranian economy as member of the wto, alongside a call for forging a bilateral investment treaty with iran. due to the strongly neoliberal aspects of the report, i did not vote in favour but abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report for a number of reasons. overall, the compromises do not reflect the present reality in iran. likewise, there is a clear lack of balance in tone and substance when it comes to serious problems such as human rights violations, corruption, and the role of iran in the region, in particular concerning its support for the assad regime. instead, there is too much emphasis on trade and investment, especially since there is already an opinion from committee on international trade covering those aspects in detail. i, along with my colleagues in alde, submitted a number of amendments to the report aimed at rebalancing the text and putting more emphasis on human rights, stronger condemnation of iran’s negative role in the middle east (particularly in syria). unfortunately, these amendments did not pass and therefore i was unable to support the report. additionally, the wording on the death penalty, free and fair elections, protection of religious minorities and torture should be much stronger.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of improving eu relations with iran to strengthen stability in the region and to ensure the effective implementation of the nuclear deal.
aachtaráin, is dócha gur maith an teideal is seo: troid i gcoinne na caimiléireacht, agus gan dabht, is troid é, agus troid is dócha nach mbuafar go deo, ach caithfimid ár ndícheall to dhéanamh. the title of the film is "after the battle of the somme", which is based on the novel by the same name by the irish writer, the author of the novel, and the film's screenplay. and often, especially at christmas, we're talking about chaimiléireacht and the interference of human nature behind the world's eyes, and the sin of the world. there is also a camaraderie outside the union. i was born in the state, i am from the state, i have a lot of friends, i have a lot of friends, even sports movements. chonaiceamar is a law enforcement agency in cluichí oilimpeacha. chonaiceamar is about fifa. therefore, it is right for us to strike a coin, to take a chance on the faith of every person, especially on people who have broken the law to stop it. go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report contains a call for the eu to become a member of greco and for the commission to publish its anti-corruption report (including a section on the eu institutions) and to propose adequate legislation. it stresses the need for legislation that would strengthen the rights of suspects and guarantees for fair trials; calls on the commission to submit a legislative proposal protecting witnesses and whistle-blowers before the end of 2017; calls on the eu and the member states to strengthen measures to trace, freeze and confiscate proceeds of crime and to ban fraudulent companies from european public procurement procedures; and contains a clear statement against tax havens. however, it also calls for the permanent loss of the right to be elected as mep once convicted for a serious crime. i believe this is an additional sanction that can only be imposed by the courts in individual cases, and after careful consideration of all circumstances. the report also emphasises membership of a criminal organisation instead of the focus remaining on the actual acts performed. it also contains references to the proposal for a european public prosecutor, which i oppose. these concerns led me to abstain on the report while recognising its many positive aspects.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the fight against corruption and follow-up of the crim resolution and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this motion. as a member of the european parliament’s itco interest group, i believe it is vital to ensure the correct transposition of existing rules, monitor their application and assess whether they are effective. further, i support the adoption of a european action plan to eradicate organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which should have adequate financial resources and qualified staff in order to be effective.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that looks for new ways to combat crime using european instruments.
in writing. ‒ given the role that fundamental rights play within the eu, increasing globalisation and internationalisation of business activities and supply chains will make the role that corporations play in ensuring respect for human rights more important. therefore, there is a urgent need to act in a continuous, effective and coherent manner at all levels, including national, european and international, in order to effectively address human rights abuses by international corporations, especially those based in the eu. i think it is imperative there are judicial, administrative, legislative or other appropriate means, that when such human rights violations occur and that those affected have access to an effective remedy, when a corporation based in the given states holds, directs or controls companies that are responsible for human rights violations in other countries. accordingly, i have voted in favour of the above resolution.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this very good report that focuses on making corporations which are in any way connected to the eu more socially responsible. positive aspects include support for the mandatory labelling of conflict-related goods, national responsibility for corporate activity in third countries, national responsibility to rectify or remedy human rights violations in their territory, an acknowledgement of the differences facing smes and multinational corporations, restrictions on dual use products and a consistent recognition of the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on corporate liability for serious human rights abuses in third countries and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ migration is a global, multidimensional, multifaceted and cross-cutting phenomenon caused by a wide variety of factors, such as economic conditions (including changes in wealth distribution and regional and global economic integration), social and political conditions, labour conditions, violence and security conditions, as well as the gradual degradation of the environment and the growing virulence of natural disasters. the union must adopt specific guidelines on the rights of migrants to complement its guidelines on human rights. there should be advocated close cooperation, to defend migrants’ rights, with the appropriate international organisations and other institutions. these measures are essential now, more than ever as a result of the migrant crisis throughout europe.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which acknowledges the contribution of corporations in ensuring international norms and upholding human rights.
as a member of the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) and coming from a small island nation, this is a very important topic for me. i attended the debate here last night and i would like to commend both the rapporteur, mr gyürk, and commissioner cañete for their help in developing a very sensible strategy on liquefied natural gas (lng) for the european union. obviously the russian developments, especially in ukraine, woke us all up to how unreliable a partner it was and it is obviously not sensible to be depending on a partner like russia for the majority of our gas. also, of course, the availability of lng means that we should avail of that opportunity as well to bring down prices and to improve security. of course, where we are concerned in ireland, the fact now that the united kingdom will be leaving the european union; it is not sensible that we should be largely dependent on a connector from the united kingdom. so these measures and the development of lng in shannon in ireland would be of major importance and i thank the commission particularly for their support of that.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. this report sees liquefied natural gas (lng) as the panacea for europe’s energy issues and is particularly problematic when it comes to its paragraphs on trade, calling for a strong energy chapter in ttip for a global lng market, which means in practice that the us will be exporting its fracked gas into europe. this report welcomes the commission proposal on an energy security package, and the eu energy union concept is the premise for creating a common lng strategy. it suggests that lng and gas storage will facilitate a quick transition to a sustainable, secure and competitive energy market and end dependence on external gas suppliers, as some countries – including ireland – are still dependent on a single supplier. it calls for the building of new lng terminals and gas storage facilities, which also means building more supporting pipeline infrastructure. my gue/ngl colleagues and others attempted to include aspects on access to energy, affordability of energy, energy as a public social good and the need to tackle energy poverty, objecting to further liberalisation and calling for a ban on hydraulic fracturing. however, none of these were included in the final report, while references to ttip in relation to energy and trade remain.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on eu strategy for liquefied natural gas and gas storage and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i acknowledge the need to make the eu gas system more diverse and flexible and develop a strategy that aims at lessening eu gas dependency in the long term, as well as the need to promote, before supporting new regasification terminals, the most efficient use of existing lng terminals from a cross-border perspective, so as to avoid technology lock-in or stranded assets in fossil fuel infrastructure and ensure that consumers do not have to bear the costs of any new projects. further, the cross-border accessibility of gas storage is one of the key tools to implement the principle of energy solidarity during gas shortages and emergency crises. therefore, i voted in favour of the above motion.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i support this report as natural gas has an important role to play in our energy mix in the medium term.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. it proposes real non-discriminatory treatment within the fisheries sector, more cooperation between member states, expanding the controls (e.g. monitoring) to cover the entire production chain, increasing traceability. it calls for the standardisation of proportional and non-discriminatory sanctions to act as a deterrent, and states that preference should be given to incentives in order to prevent infringements, rather than sanctions. i support the majority of the content of the report but i oppose the call for a higher level of eu centralisation and an eu-level definition of the technical and political measures related to controls rather than cooperation between member states. there are also references to the use of new technologies for monitorisation; the introduction of a points-based sanctions system, with implications for the fishing licences. the report opposes any mandatory video surveillance on board for all vessels, but sinn féin has called for increased surveillance regarding foreign operators of large-scale industrial vessels fishing in irish waters, so i do not support that proposal. for these reasons i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on how to make fisheries controls in europe uniform and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of this report that addresses the lack of consistent information across the eu due to differences in collecting information in each member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. it outlines a range of suggestions to modernise and enhance the connectivity and accessibility of transport infrastructure from and within central and eastern parts of the eu. on the one hand, it reiterates the ten-t objectives of bridging missing links, removing bottlenecks, and ensuring seamless connections for long-distance and regional transport, particularly in cross-border regions, for passengers and freight. however, my gue/ngl colleagues attempted to improve the report in committee by including pro-social and pro-environment elements but this was rejected and overall the report is highly focused on economic growth and competitiveness, heavy infrastructure and subordinating all transport modes ‘without exception’ to the needs of competitiveness and the single market. the report also repeatedly promotes the use of public-private partnerships in developing transport infrastructure, and its reference to ten-t is limited to the core network (again a heavy focus on growth rather than social need). for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on improving the connection and accessibility of the transport infrastructure in central and eastern europe and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ the need to enhance the connectivity and accessibility of the infrastructure for transport to, from and within the central and eastern parts of the eu is central in facilitating the free movement of persons throughout the union. therefore, eu funding must reflect the real investment needs for completing the ten-t core network by 2030 in the region. moreover, the eu should not only create new infrastructure but also invest in the modernisation and completion of existing transport infrastructures. this should include investments in rail, road and marine transport. this would open up the enormous potential to further economic engagement in central and eastern europe.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of improving accessibility and transport infrastructure to improve connections from one member state to another.
in writing. ‒ this non-legislative report was initiated following the ep resolution on the situation in hungary on 10 june 2015 that had called for a commission proposal on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights, as a tool for compliance with and enforcement of the charter and treaties as signed by all member states. the origin of this proposal is to tackle the limitations (or inoperability) of the current rule of law mechanism, mainly article 7 teu. this report recommends, until a possible treaty change, that the commission by september 2017 submit a proposal for the conclusion of an eu pact for democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights (drf). it will take the form of an interinstitutional agreement. the report also suggests that the ecj should monitor legislation from member states when the ecj’s remit is to examine adherence to eu law in relation to the treaties. while i strongly support the promotion of fundamental rights in the eu, i am opposed to such a significant transfer of powers away from member states towards the commission, which is why i voted against the report.
in writing. ‒ i support the report with recommendations to the commission on the establishment of an eu mechanism on democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion. the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, are cornerstones of the functioning of the european union and therefore should be protected at an institutional level. in particular, i believe that the european parliament and the national parliaments should play a key role in measuring the progress of, and monitoring the compliance with, the shared values of the union. the pact on drf would allow for country-specific recommendations, an annual inter-parliamentary debate and arrangements for remedying possible risks and breaches in fundamental rights, all of which would strengthen the core principles that bind the union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report on the establishment of a mechanism to monitor member states’ compliance with democratic values and the rule of law.
mr president, in a sense this is a programme for governance for 2017 and you would imagine that this place would be buzzing, alive with people. you would get more buzz out of a fly with one day to live! we have issues such as brexit, we have trade deals – that you crave after, mr timmermans – that are falling apart all around your ears, we have a refugee crisis, we have a crisis in agriculture and we have a serious crisis of confidence within the eu institutions. so, what do you do? with the people who were elected in this parliament to represent the views of the people? you supply us with your programme for governance 15 minutes before we come in here! that is a complete and utter joke. how on earth can anyone have a debate with only 15 minutes to go through the information? i think i have heard longer standing members at this stage joke about this. this is not a joke! if you want people to take the european union seriously, if you are going to have a programme, give it to us more than 13 minutes before – but you do not care what we think and that is why you have done what you have done.
a uachtaráin, cé go gcuirim fáilte roimh sholúbthacht agus simpliú an cai (an creat airgeadais ilbhliantúil), which means "air-borne creature", is a place where people go to be worried. the aim of all our activities in parliament should be to promote equality and fairness, to support those who are most vulnerable in our society. we can't go on like this without going to hell. i'm talking about ghéarchéim in the dteifeach and also in ghéarchéim dhéiríochta. no one had ever seen anything like that before. the council's duties in the field of justice should be directed to the administration of justice and the laws should be reviewed. it is therefore important to be responsible and to listen to the parliament which has repeatedly asked for the necessary resources and sources to be made available. there is no investment in the employment of young people, for example, where the employment of young people is not regulated by the council. at least, there is a strong willingness to show that parliament is taking the necessary steps to continue to support the laws and processes of the south of ireland in view of the implications for the british government. we are now due to legislate in the areas of creating equality and mismatch and we are due to remain in the area of those who need to be budgeted by the european union.
madam president, it makes total sense, obviously, to carry out a mid-term review with all that has happened in the last few years, much of it unexpected, some of it predictable, but in a lot of cases people did not listen. but the first thing you have got to do is to do the simple things. i think it says a lot about the european union that it has become so complicated that apparently it is impossible not to do the simple thing of not travelling down here once every month, wasting time, wasting money, and, most importantly, wasting our ability to think, because while we are travelling all over europe, we are not getting time to think about the problems of europe and how to solve them. if we cannot solve something that is pretty much a drip in comparison to the flood that we are facing, then we would want to think about where we are going. we have got to stop travelling down here, because you cannot preach to anyone how they spend their money if you repeatedly do something stupid like this.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. the president, my gratitude to you and your report is so good. i'm afraid i'm going to have to ask the council to hear the bill as it stands. the challenge is clear: we cannot afford to lose sight of the need to strengthen our institutions; we need to create jobs and public investment, and we need to support cop 21 in the months ahead. it is said that go minic go bhfuil an eoraip ag druidim i dtreo atá níos sociólaí agus níos forchéimnithí. i'm not sure. i am writing to you with a plan to make cosme, research and employment available to you. the council has already decided to grant them a grant, but no funding has been made available to them. i am looking to the council to put forward a change in the emff rules. many cuts have already been made to the emff, but our budget will have to cope with the costs and will have to make do with the cuts in the budget. i understand that everything is here to protect the world's fisheries. it is right that the information, care and support provided to the public sector should be increased. i am pleased that the council has taken the necessary steps to ensure that all the tools we have can be used in accordance with the laws in the various areas. the government should take appropriate measures to promote public health, create employment and support small businesses. the council should be required to lay down the laws on the application of the provisions of the treaty on european union to the united kingdom. the council should support the laws and processes of síochána in éirinn, and the agreement on the establishment of a community, which is now under the aegis of the british government. it is their duty to stand together in solidarity with their society, their economy and their economic development.
mr president, it is pleasant to hear general approval for what has been proposed here for the 2017 budget and rightly so, i think, especially homing in on areas that will make a big difference to people’s lives and promote jobs and growth, such as the connecting europe facility, erasmus+, horizon 2020, which is vital of course, cosme and indeed also, as mentioned just recently, coding and digital skills. i joined those hosting coderdojo, a group of young people volunteering around europe who are developing those necessary skills and that obviously is something that is going to be hugely beneficial as we become more digitised as a society. one other point i would make though. all the good work that the european union does is often not recognised where it matters most: among citizens. so maybe if we had a line there to counteract populism and promote what the european union is actually doing, so that citizens will get the real picture and appreciate it, this would be a good idea.
mr president, the european semester at the process has prevented public investment at a time in europe when we needed quite the opposite. we needed a marshall plan. we needed money put into our economies. we have an opportunity but were prevented from doing anything with this opportunity, and the opportunity is low interest rates. but there is another problem with this system, and when it comes to ireland, the rules are enforced by the european union, but when it comes to france and when it comes to germany (and surpluses were mentioned earlier), there is nothing done, and this causes more problems than it solves. we have a homelessness problem in ireland – we need massive public investment. as i have said already, we have low interest rates, so we are being forced to leave people homeless in ireland, for children to live in car, for children to have to urinate in coca cola bottles and leave them outside the car, to be chased away by a parking attendant in the morning, because our government tells us: because of this abomination, we cannot break these rules. break them – they are not good.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, when it comes to the issue of companies paying their fair share of corporation tax, we have made some progress at european level. we have the administrative cooperation directive and the anti—tax avoidance directive. personally, i have supported country-by-country reporting since i came to this parliament 12 years ago. we also have beps, and today we have the latest proposals on ccctb. indeed, there are positive aspects to this proposal and it will help to further tackle tax evasion, but there is a price. yes, tax rates will be untouched, but tax sovereignty will be eroded. member states will no longer be able to decide what is deductible and what is non-deductible, for example. ministers for finance will not be able to change certain tax provisions during budgets, even if they believe it will benefit their economy. so this proposal asks member states to hand over significant new powers to the commission. the other issue that concerns me is where corporation tax will be paid. has any analysis been done to see what countries will lose corporation tax revenue and what countries will gain corporation tax revenue under your apportionment model? this model means that member states with small domestic markets like my own, ireland, or the netherlands, who have secured significant foreign direct investment, will lose out on corporation tax revenue. it is absolutely essential that figures are produced so that member states know the extent of the changes. this proposal has merit, but there will be winners and losers. if you want agreement, commissioner, i believe this issue has to be dealt with head on. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – my reading certainly is that these proposals from the commission do not touch our tax rates whatsoever. they have no impact on them. member states are absolutely free to set their tax rates, and i think we are all happy about that. you talk about how to make europe a more attractive place. i think one of the issues that we have to face is that there are mismatches between different tax systems outside europe and the european tax system, and we have to deal with that. i know the commission have proposals on that. i have not had time to study them deeply but i hope they will work. i suppose my issue here is that we are giving up a certain amount of tax sovereignty and, if we do that, we have to be sure that the outcomes that are in place are fair to member states and that member states can live with them. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think one of the reasons that the irish economy is doing as well as it is at the moment is because those who invest in it know that we have 500 million customers that we can sell our goods to, and those 500 million customers reside in the eu. i think that is the reason why most irish people, and indeed a majority in northern ireland, when they had an opportunity to vote, voted to remain in the eu. the eu has its challenges and i have articulated some of them here tonight. but i believe, for my country, access to that single market will help to drive our economic success, and i would not agree with irexit.
madam president, we need to see maximum tax powers remain with national governments to ensure that they are held accountable for their decisions by their electorates. we also need to see effective international action against tax avoidance, one of the great global injustices of our time. but commissioner, your proposal falls short. this proposal may, in fact, actually intensify the race to the bottom on corporate tax in the eu; it will not end international transfer pricing or the shifting of profits offshore. governments or the commission saying that they are tackling tax avoidance is not the same thing as actually doing it. for example, many people believe that the infamous double irish scam used by google and facebook and microsoft is to be phased out by 2020, but reports of its death have been greatly exaggerated. despite the spin, it is still in place for companies who set up a subsidiary in certain countries that ireland has a tax treaty with, such as malta, as these treaties override domestic law. this notorious tax loophole and all such vehicles need to end immediately as a first step to delivering tax justice.
madam president, the interesting thing about coming in here today was that this particularly affects ireland. it is no secret that it is a cornerstone of our economic policy for successive governments. stone, though, is a bit of a strong word for it, because that stone is starting to be worn away. when i came in here today i was expecting to see members of our government – meps from that party – coming in here to defend it, because it is a cornerstone of their policy. it was interesting to hear the commissioner say at the beginning that we have a more favourable political environment. well, ireland and irish people are seen as supportive of the eu project. it’s strange, because a member of the epp has said that if you go ahead any further with this, they will get ireland to pull out of the eu. so it’s interesting you say it is a more political favourable environment. i was wondering, until the president turned up, had we already irexited, because none of them were here.
the next item is the debate on– the oral question to the council on trans fats (tfas) by renate sommer, daciana octavia sârbu, nikolay barekov, anneli jäätteenmäki, lynn boylan, martin häusling, piernicola pedicini, and mireille d'ornano, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000105/2016 - b8-1801/2016),– the oral question to the commission on trans fats (tfas) by renate sommer, daciana octavia sârbu, nikolay barekov, anneli jäätteenmäki, lynn boylan, martin häusling, piernicola pedicini, and mireille d'ornano, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000106/2016 - b8-1802/2016). before i give the floor to our speakers, may i just say that time is not on our side. i would ask every speaker to respect their speaking time, because it is an important debate and we want to make sure you have your point.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, i am pleased that we are debating this issue. what i am not pleased about is the fact that, despite the commissioners accepting the urgency tonight, they have not come forward with legislative proposals to tackle these dangerous fats, in spite of the clear evidence which we are hearing tonight of the health risks that they pose, and especially for heart disease. so not only did we have a year’s delay in coming forward with the legally required study into different policy options, but we have also failed to make the proposals which the commission themselves acknowledge would be the most effective for public health. it is now well overdue that the commission comes forward with legal mandatory limits as the best option for minimising trans fats in food, which we have seen been so successful in denmark. so i call on the commissioner to listen to this motion, and indeed its own study which showed that mandatory limits were clearly the most effective measure in reducing the risk posed by trans fats to citizens, including those on lower incomes. we have to make it easier for consumers to make the healthier choice, and mandatory limits are the best way to do so for trans fats.
madam president, this is the week when people of wallonia said no to tyranny by rejecting ceta. also – and contrary to what ms vautmans said in relation to all countries supporting it – in the last week ireland’s upper house, the seanad, rejected this deal. let’s be clear though: the eu hierarchy does not care what the general public thinks. i hear talk of breaking the deadlocks, but translated, that means: we will break your country unless you do what you’re told. i know the reality of that – i’m from ireland. we were bullied for voting for nice and then again with lisbon. their argument is that if you vote no, then you don’t understand; if you vote yes, then you’re enlightened. the reality is this: the eu and canada already have judicial systems that offer rights and protections equally to all its citizens, companies and corporations, with appeals possible all the way to the supreme court or the european court of justice. mr pittella talks about peddling; here we have another type of peddling: the peddling of lies. isds and ics are one of the same; if you change the label on a tin of little cat food to one for caviar, it does not change its contents. it still has the same rubbish within.
in writing. ‒ this vote was regarding the mandate for the ep to negotiate with the council. while i agreed with a number of aspects of the report, i disagreed with a number of the priorities outlined, which is why i abstained in the final vote. i supported the inclusion of certain elements into the mandate, especially sinn fein’s amendment, which was adopted into paragraph 4, and which called for ensuring support for the north in the wake of brexit. this encompasses retaining programs such as peace. while the ep position restores all the cuts made by the council, it falls short on the cuts which had already been introduced by the commission. the best reflection of this is reducing cohesion funding in favour of a militarised ‘fortress europe’. the larger and wealthier member states, who have been cheerleaders of neoliberal policies and champions of austerity, have played a significant role in the negative implications for social and regional programmes. this entails member states, local authorities, institutions and civil society stakeholders being held hostage by ‘market logic’ and the systematic transfer of funds from existing eu programs and the erosion of public investment. i could not fully oppose the report as voting against consequently meant supporting the council’s position, which is socially regressive, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the general budget for the financial year 2017. the budget succeeded in securing necessary financing in priority areas. eur 600 million more was allocated for agriculture and in compensation for the embargo on russia, while eur 400 million more was given for horizon 2020 for scientists and innovators as well as eur 200 million more was allocated for cosme (eu programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises) in support of small and medium-sized businesses. i was particularly pleased that eur 1.5 billion more was set aside for dealing with youth unemployment.
i'd like to see you do all the work in a few days. it's hard work, but it's worth it. i want to focus on the other one, is it sin alt 99, regarding laws an suíochán singil nó aonair, nó suíochán amháin to bheith againn. 501 made the 688 in the fhabhar today. and of course, that's in the end. there is no reason, in terms of climate change and in terms of the speed of the transport laws, there is no reason in terms of the geilleagar and in terms of the cost of the more, in terms of the millions of transport laws and there is no reason in terms of the strus that makes it difficult for people to be here one week and then go to brussels another week. go raibh míle maith agat, to the uachtaráin.
in writing. ‒ whilst i agreed with a number of aspects within this report, there were issues surrounding the priorities of the european parliament in this regard, which is why i abstained in the final vote. i supported the inclusion of certain elements into the mandate, especially a sinn féin amendment in paragraph 4 ensuring support for the north in the wake of brexit, which would encompass retaining programmes such as peace. whilst the parliament’s position does restore all the cuts made by the council, it falls short on the cuts which had already been introduced by the commission itself. the best reflection of this is a reduction of cohesion funding in favour of a militarized ‘fortress europe’. the larger and wealthier member states, who have been cheerleaders of neoliberal policies and champions of austerity, have played a significant role in the negative implications for social and regional programmes. this entails member states, local authorities, institutions and civil society stakeholders being held hostage by ‘market logic’ and the systematic transfer of funds from existing eu programs and the erosion of public investment. i could not fully oppose the report as voting against consequently meant voting in favour of the council’s position, which is socially regressive, so i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i support the 2017 budget which sets outs the parliament’s main priorities for the coming year. i did not support amendment 3 as there are no coupled payments for bulls in spain.
mr president, this is a very important review and i welcome it, but first of all i want to say that we have to put more pressure on council member states to give a bigger budget to the european union overall, especially in the next mff. 1% of gdp is very small when you are asked to do almost everything because every time there is a crisis people look to europe for funding. the first thing we should look at is having a far bigger emergency fund: look at what has happened since we discussed the last mff –the way migration has taken off and the funding required for that: nobody anticipated it a number of years ago. the same is true in agriculture: it is crisis after crisis, so we need a bigger emergency fund for that. i also support measures in relation to structural funds, cohesion funds, employment funds, ten-t, connecting europe – all those things are very important for our citizens. but unless we have a good, strong budget, we will not be able to do it. the mff is very important from that point of view.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. i supported the inclusion of certain elements into the european parliament’s resolution on the mff revision, especially sinn fein’s amendment, which was adopted in paragraph 4, and which called for ensuring support for the north in the wake of brexit. this encompasses retaining programs such as peace. there were negative elements in this report, especially in paragraph 10 where the term ‘populism’ is associated with misinformation, and it conflates both right-wing and left-wing parties. with the mff i abstained on the final vote, as i could not fully oppose the report as voting against consequently meant endorsing the council’s position, which was regressive.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the mid-term revision of the mmf 2014-2020 and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the mid-term revision of the multiannual financial framework. (mff) 2014-2020. after a review of the performance of the mff in the first half of this programming period as presented in the resolution of 6 july 2016, this resolution outlines that a substantial amount of additional funding from the eu budget is required. it highlights a number of new crises and priorities that have emerged over the past years, notably the migration and refugee crisis, external emergencies, internal security issues, the crisis in agriculture, the funding of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and the persistent high level of unemployment, especially among young people. i was particularly pleased that the motion emphasised our core values of peace and stability by highlighting the importance of the good friday agreement, and the need to protect specific measures and programmes to ensure support for the regions particularly affected in the event of a negotiated exit from the eu upon the invocation of article 50 of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that calls on the council to respond to the commission’s proposal and commence negotiations with parliament, to ensure that an agreement on both the 2017 budget and the mff revision can be reached before the end of 2016.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (application from estonia – egf/2016/003 ee/petroleum and chemicals) and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this application to mobilise eur 1 131 358 of the egf for 1 550 workers in estonia made redundant in three enterprises operating in the economic sectors of coke manufacturing, refined petroleum products and the manufacture of chemicals and chemical products across the ida verumaa region in estonia. due to estonia’s relatively small open economy, highly reliant on exports of goods and services, which have suffered from the recent oil market turbulences and a general decrease in europe’s international trade position, i welcome this application as estonia’s first egf application. particularly the region of ida verumaa faces considerable challenges due to its location and demography, as it is relatively remote and has a significantly higher unemployment rate than the national average. i was very pleased to see that the application will support cofunded personalised services to the redundant workers consisting of payments for the cost of formal studies, training cost reimbursement for employers, labour market training, estonian language training, work practice and counselling.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
go raibh maith agat, to the leas-uachtaráin. chaith me vote and bhfabhar in your chest. the commission should also have basic requirements for the provision of information to all public organisations. tagann an tuairisc is part of the choinbhinsiún na náisiún aontaithe um chearta na ndaoine faoi mhíchumas (cprd), which has been signed by rialtas na héireann since 2007, but has not been fully implemented. i will not be bound by the rules of the league, nor by the rules of the league. the rules will make it easier to access information through apps not available in public libraries. the changes are likely to be important for people with disabilities, especially in developing countries, where there has been a decrease in the number of people with disabilities due to the changes over the past eight years. thank you.
go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin. the report was adopted by a majority of the members of the group and by the commission. the recommendation, which aims to introduce standardised accessibility features on websites of public sector bodies, and the proposed policy, would make said platforms more accessible, enhance monitoring and reporting standards and identify the dissemination of information as a priority. i note the exclusion of websites owned by public service broadcasters and their subsidiaries, thus essentially distinguishing the web accessibility directive from the audiovisual media services directive. i believe that these recommendations will enhance the application of current frameworks in this domain while providing the foundation for future policy. this again is another step in the right direction as we try and move towards a digital single market, which would add billions to the european economy as part of the policy of this commission.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the accessibility of the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ this proposed directive aims at the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states on the accessibility of websites from public sector bodies, in order to improve the functioning of the internal market. it lays down the rules according to which member states must ensure that the websites and mobile applications of public sector bodies respect the accessibility requirements. this directive would provide valuable guidelines in this area and therefore, i voted in favour of the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
mr president, this proposal reminds me of an experience i had a number of years ago on my one and only visit to new zealand. when i was going to new zealand i was stopped at customs because i was eating an apple and i would not be let in. i was told there was a danger of bringing diseases into the country. i was fined nzd 120 and when i said, ‘i am going to eat the apple’ i was asked, ‘what are you going to do with the core of the apple?’ and i said, ‘i will throw it away’. he said, ‘exactly, you are not entitled to, you can bring in a disease’. this is what is required here because there is a danger, and i understand that now, through globalisation and climate change that pests etc. could damage plants within the european union. for that reason, it is only right that we should be very vigilant in that regard and have a sensible approach to it because we have to protect our environment and we have to protect our plants. while we do not have to charge people nzd 120 if they eat an apple, there is a certain logic, i suppose, in it. i learned my lesson.
in writing. ‒ this file came before the parliament as a second reading, therefore there was no vote on the overall report – only one amendment to reject the result of inter-institutional negotiations. the regulation imposes strict controls on importing plant material into the eu in the hopes of avoiding future outbreaks of plant diseases, such as the recent xylella fastudiosa attacking olive trees in france, germany and italy. the regulation will make it possible to protect against plant material that could be dangerous from a phytosanitary point of view by implementing a sort of quarantine system. delegated and implementing acts will come later, listing pests to be designated as either priority pests, quarantine pests or non-regulated quarantine pests. given these good elements, i voted against the amendment to reject the compromise text.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the amendment on the protective measures against pests of plants and i am in favour of accepting the council position on the matter.
in writing. ‒ i voted to approve the council’s position at first reading of the legislation. the general objective of the proposed regulation is to deal with the increased risks facing the phytosanitary sector and resulting from the emergence of new pests and new diseases. the text also aims to modernise phytosanitary trade-related instruments, either within the eu (improved traceability in the internal market) or from third countries, favouring a risk-based approach.
in writing. ‒ i voted in support of legislation to address increased risks in the plant health sector from new pests and diseases arising from intra eu trade and plants imported from third countries.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which was the second of the regular own—initiative (non-legislative) reports drafted in econ on the framework of the european semester. the council adopted the country—specific recommendations (csrs) on 12 july 2016, and this report is the response of the european parliament to these recommendations and their implementation. despite the inclusion of some positive recommendations, such as for minimum income schemes in member states, the recommendations continue to focus on deregulation, privatisation, and a reduction of member states’ deficits at the expense of investment, welfare and public services. this time csrs have also been marked by the attempt to apply article 23 of the common provisions regulation, which restricts access to the european structural funds to those countries that have not achieved the macroeconomic objectives set out in the economic governance framework (i.e., spain and portugal). sinn fein opposes the european semester as the economic framework of the eu, so i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european semester for economic policy coordination: implementation of 2016 priorities.
in writing. ‒ i abstained from the vote as some alde amendments have not been incorporated in the compromises or adopted in committee. the amendments which the alde group proposed sought to stress the importance for growth to continue modernising economies and improving business environment. moreover, key alde points such that measures should be taken to improve the business environment to incentivise investment and that a fully integrated eu labour market should be created, have been rejected in the vote in committee. however, there is a reference to the commission communication advocating flexibility in the stability and growth pact, which i fully support and i voted in favour of this amendment.
go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin. you've brought me into this matter with my group. there was no effort we would have made to report to the police, not one of them to my own father, lynn boylan. it's an important subject. i support this motion for a resolution in the light of its vital recommendations in this field of public health and the provision of nutritional literacy to consumers across the european union. this motion for a resolution reminds us that we must remain keenly aware of the health risks associated with the consumption of trans fats (tfas), including but not limited to cardiovascular disease, infertility and obesity. we must therefore strive to harmonise the eu approach to tfas, boosting awareness across industries and within the home across the eu. and if you're not going to protect our citizens' health, then you're not important. it is said, in gaelic, that there is no more important thing than health: is fearr an tsláinte ná na tainte. thank you.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, co-authored by my colleague lynn boylan. trans-fatty acids (tfas) are unsaturated fats found in foods obtained from ruminants and in industrially-produced, partially hydrogenated vegetable oils. consumption has been associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, alzheimer’s disease, obesity and some types of cancer. high tfa intake is, in particular, a risk factor for developing coronary heart disease – a disease that is conservatively estimated to account for 660 000 deaths annually in the eu, or 14% of overall mortality. the commission was required by a 2014 regulation to submit a report to the european parliament and the council on the presence of tfas in foods and was invited to accompany the report with a legislative proposal if appropriate. in its report published in december 2015, the commission considered possible options to limit tfa consumption in the eu, but refrained from making a legislative proposal. the resolution highlights that tfa legal limits can bring rapid and significant health benefits, (for example, as they have in denmark). it calls on the commission to propose mandatory limits on industrial tfas in order to reduce their intake as soon as possible, which i support.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on trans fats and noted no objections. i supported this vote because excess consumption of tfas causes health problems, and cutting out or reducing transfats could save up to 50 000 lives in europe every year. meps have asked the commission in this vote to carry out a substantial impact assessment before presenting a legal proposal, and this means that local producers will not unfairly suffer.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that concerns eu legislation to regulate the content of industrially produced tfas in foodstuffs. scientific evidence shows that tfas can lead to an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, infertility, endometriosis, gallstones, alzheimer’s disease, diabetes, obesity and some cancers. unfortunately, labelling measures have failed to be effective as only one in three consumers in the eu have knowledge about tfas. action must be taken to raise awareness through the education system and media campaigns. this resolution calls on the commission to collaborate with the member states with a view to increasing nutritional literacy, encouraging and enabling consumers to make healthier food choices and engaging with the industry to encourage the healthy reformulation of their products.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this motion that calls for the introduction of mandatory limits on industrially-produced trans-fatty acids (tfas).
mr president, it is very appropriate that 20 years after the evs was started and five years after the european year on volunteering, that we can stand back and reflect on the progress we have made and map out a pathway for the future. as a founder member of the volunteering interest group in parliament, i and many of my colleagues, many of whom are here today, have worked in partnership with voluntary groups in our own member states and with the centre for european volunteering (cev). indeed after 2011, the cev coordinated the setting up of an alliance which fed into a document called the ‘policy agenda for volunteering’. this document speaks of the partnership approach which will work towards building and enabling volunteering infrastructure in europe. indeed, our own resolution calls on the commission to facilitate the development of a more coordinated volunteering policy with a view to establishing a single contact point in the commission. one of the things that i have heard again and again, from the cev in particular, is that volunteering is spread across a number of different dgs. we need to streamline the system. other issues that need to be dealt with include the fact that all member states adopt the system developed by the ilo to measure volunteering. i am pleased to hear that the commission is going to support volunteering as an essential part of third-level courses; indeed we have some excellent examples of what we call service learning in nui galway and st angela’s in sligo. i am also pleased to hear the announcement of the european solidarity corps. finally i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate my own hometown sligo, which who has been named european volunteering capital for 2017. it is a huge opportunity to recognise and support our wonderful volunteers and i hope it will be a catalyst to encourage even more volunteers and particularly young people, some of whom may well join the european solidarity corps.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of refusing the discharge because the council refuses to provide the necessary elements for the meps to be able to effectively scrutinise the council expenditure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote to refuse the ‘2014 discharge – eu general budget – european council and council’ and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the motion that called on parliament to refuse to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european council and of the council for the financial year 2014. the repeated difficulties in the discharge procedure are regrettable. it is also regrettable that the council continues to fail to provide answers to parliament’s questions and that only three out of 27 questions submitted to the council in relation to the financial year 2014 received a clear reply in the documents provided by the council within the discharge exercise. i believe a revision of the treaties and of the financial regulation is needed in order to clarify the objectives and processes of the discharge procedure, and to define sanctions for failing to comply with the rules as stated in the treaties.
in writing. ‒ the eniac joint undertaking was asked to provide further information to the committee on budgetary control on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the replies provided by the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking) were considered to be satisfactory. i therefore voted in favour of eniac’s closure of accounts for 2014 and in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the eniac joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted to grant the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking (formerly the eniac joint undertaking and the artemis joint undertaking) discharge in respect of the implementation of the eniac joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014. i accept that the intention of the joint undertaking is to continue the exercise of surveying national insurance procedures by covering up to 92.7% of the total joint undertaking grants allocated and i welcome its assurance that the national procedures provide reasonable assurance with regard to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. ‒ the artemis joint undertaking was asked to provide further information to the committee on budgetary control on the reliability of its accounts and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. the replies provided by the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking were considered to be satisfactory while reiterating some concerns stated in the report, in particular regarding internal control standards. i therefore voted in favour of the closure of the artemis accounts for 2014 and in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the artemis joint undertaking for the financial year 2014 and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which granted the executive director of the ecsel joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the artemis joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014. this allowed parliament to close the accounts of the joint undertaking for 2014. in addition, i was happy to support a number of comments included in the report, such as the concern raised by the court of auditors in its report on the annual accounts of the joint undertaking for the financial year 2014. in the report, the coa issued a qualified opinion regarding the regularity and legality of the underlying transactions on the grounds that the administrative agreements signed with the national funding authorities regarding the audit of project cost claims do not include practical arrangements for ex-post audits. it was also a concern that the joint undertaking took no action regarding some internal control standards relating to information and financial reporting and that this was due to the impending merger. in the meantime, ecsel jti achieved substantial progress with regard to the implementation of the ics and establishing internal audit capability.
in writing. ‒ i voted against iter’s closure of accounts for 2014 and against the resolution granting discharge for 2014 as to how the project has been handled, especially reflecting the excessive amount of resources which have been allocated to it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the second report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy for the financial year 2014 and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report, which granted the director of the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy discharge in respect of the implementation of the joint undertaking’s budget for the financial year 2014. this allowed parliament to close the accounts of the joint undertaking for 2014. in addition, i was happy to support a number of comments included in the report, such as that the iter project is now going in the right direction, in a way that will allow for a sound, realistic and detailed proposal for schedule and indicated that the successful completion of all project milestones to date, on or ahead of schedule, is a positive indicator. i also welcome the fact that the milestones set up at the iter council meeting of 18 and 19 november 2015 are well advanced and that four out of the six milestones attributed to fusion for energy (f4e) for 2016 have already been fulfilled. finally, i was happy that the issue of the lease of the premises of the joint undertaking has been solved, as the spanish government offered a long-term lease agreement for the current premises and an extension of the current office space by one additional floor.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation in northern iraq/mosul and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i decry in the strongest terms the regime that isis has imposed on the citizens of mosul and northern iraq. equally i support the operation started by iraq to liberate mosul from isis. this operation is a decisive part of an ongoing, global effort to inflict a lasting defeat on isis once and for all. it is also imperative that all parties to the conflict abide by international humanitarian law during and after hostilities and, in the conflict, to abide by the principles of proportionality, distinction and precaution.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation of journalists in turkey and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i strongly condemn the attempted coup in turkey of 15 july 2016 and support the legitimate institutions of turkey, while deploring the high number of casualties. given that a free and pluralistic press is an essential component of any democracy, as are due process, presumption of innocence and judicial independence, i condemn the turkish government’s actions in disrupting and arresting opposition journalists in the country.
the president, my group and i voted on this report to give us the opportunity to adopt the laws we have. the work of the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons represented a key effort in hindering the spread of nuclear weapons technology on an international scale. however, our work does not end here. we will continue to promote the peaceful use of nuclear energy even if total eradication is not a realistic option at present. by this means, we may advance progress towards global nuclear disarmament. vigilance and cooperation will remain central to these efforts, wherein we will continue to prevent, detect and indeed punish offences related to the use of nuclear materials. i must say that as a member of the iranian delegation i look forward to the ordinary citizens of iran benefiting from economic progress, but also, hopefully, a concomitant improvement in the human rights record in that country.
in writing. ‒ on the resolution for nuclear non-proliferation i voted in favour of the joint resolution. i supported it as this resolution is explicit in opposing the multilateral proliferation of nuclear weapons, and clear in supporting disarmament. the successful vote on this joint resolution took place just before the un general assembly’s first committee voted in favour of beginning negotiations for a treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. this resolution gives support to that process.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on nuclear security and non-proliferation and supported amendment 2, which calls on nuclear-weapon states to refrain from the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons.
in writing. ‒ while i am concerned about the deterioration of the security environment around the european union and beyond its neighbourhood, which could lead to the re-emergence of nuclear weapons as an active deterrent and possible proliferation among state and non-state actors, and about the lack of implementation of effective disarmament and non-proliferation steps, i believe it to be necessary that the maintaining of nuclear weapons should be limited and indeed stopped. accordingly, i have voted in favour of the resolution.
aachtaráin, gan dabht ar bith is ceart go dtabharfaimis aitheantas agus moladh do dhaoine a oibríonn go deonach trasna na heorpa ar fad, agus gan dabht ar bith, mar a dúirt anna záborská nóiméad ó shin, ní fhaigheann siad aon rud as an obair seo ach an tsástacht agus an taitneamh a bhaineann siad as. the president of the republic of croatia, in his capacity as president of the european council, has declared that the european council is the highest authority in the field of human rights in the world. i think they're going to kill every last rud to create a chur chun cinn. for example, there were six phribhléid agamsa to be found in chumann lúthchleas gael and my own, agus sa ghluaisteacht sin, gach aon oifigeach is obair dheonach a dhéanann siad. i was only in the audience when they were playing in front of maybe 80,000 people, they didn't get any money, they got a lot of happiness, they got a lot of glory. therefore, the only thing we can do to make the work and to bring it to fruition, should be to do it in the name of, and as a reward, perhaps, more than an official reward to bring it to fruition at european level.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which recognises the positive work done by volunteers across the eu, and calls for further support and access to eu funds for volunteers and their organisations. i voted in favour of amendments proposed by my colleagues in gue/ngl that included a call for recognition of the economic value volunteering in accordance with an ilo recommendation. i voted against certain aspects of the report calling for an eu legal framework for volunteers as i believe it should remain as a member state competence. however, this was not a sufficient reason for not supporting the report, so i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the european voluntary service and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i was very happy to support this joint motion for resolution especially considering i was a founding member of the european parliament volunteering interest group. overall, the resolution is very balanced and i was happy that it noted the urgent need for better eu coordinated policy on volunteering, to give volunteers a proper legal status and help them join programmes. almost 100 million eu citizens have taken part as volunteers in education, culture or arts, sport events, humanitarian and development aid work. young people should take advantage of volunteering schemes to develop skills and acquire experience that helps them to find jobs afterwards. to encourage volunteering, a more supportive environment is essential, including a legal framework with clear rights and responsibilities for programme managers and volunteers, as well as fair funding. thankfully, the resolution noted this. likewise, i was very happy that the motion for resolution called for the european commission to improve its communication strategy and public access to information about opportunities in the european volunteering service and also to develop a more coordinated volunteering policy, with a single contact point in the eu institutions and a simpler application system for both individuals and organisations.
madam president, no doubt about it, the economic crisis has had a terrible effect, especially on young people, leaving many of them unemployed and, as a result, disillusioned and maybe passive. but at the same time, the optimism of youth will always win out. this was very clear, especially in the referendum in the united kingdom on brexit. the majority of young people voted to stay in the european union. it was the older generations who are now hell-bent on taking them out of the european union, doing their youth a terrible disservice. hopefully those young people, when they come to adulthood and take over positions themselves, will be in a position to reverse this terrible mistake. therefore, we should do everything we can to help the youth, not just of britain but right across the european union, especially in getting jobs and digital skills which will be most needed into the future. it is the youth who will create the digital single market in europe.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the final vote in this report. there were several positive aspects of this report in terms of proposing to reduce youth unemployment, improve skills and ensure a strong focus on youth participation in decision-making when it comes to youth policy. the most substantial point in the report is that it ‘views the ‘open method of coordination’ as an appropriate but still insufficient as a means for framing youth policies that needs to be complemented by other measures’. in contrast, i support member states retaining primary competence over youth policy. the main problems i had with the report related to the relationship between education and employment. for example, paragraphs 45 and 51 promote entrepreneurship as a substantial solution to youth unemployment, and a call for collaboration between business and universities in the development of skills needed by the labour market. despite the positive aspects of the report i could not fully support it due to some of the false solutions it promotes, and its failure to acknowledge austerity policies and lack of investment as the primary cause of youth unemployment in europe, so i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the assessment of the eu youth strategy 2013-2015 and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i along with the majority of my colleagues in the parliament supported this own-initiative report on the eu youth strategy 2013-2015. the report is giving the second period assessment for the framework for european cooperation in the field of the eu youth strategy, which covers the period of 2010-2018. it defines eight fields of action, namely: education and training, employment and entrepreneurship, health and welfare, participation, volunteering, social inclusion, youth and the world, creativity and culture. it is an assessment for the past period. i was happy that the resolution called for better cooperation in finding common solutions to the challenges such as early school-leaving, proper counselling on educational path, involving the youth to the decision-making processes and integrating young refugees via the education and training. likewise, i was glad that the rapporteur noted that the youth guarantee and youth employment initiative has not been fully functional in some member states.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that focuses on tackling youth unemployment.
the president, with my group in the chamber, voted against the report, and i am glad to say that the report is a good one. we all have to be more careful about creating in your places and should be doing everything we can to do it and we're doing it together. i am glad that the eu and the cap (common agricultural policy) have agreed on so many things that are currently being discussed, but i do not think that they are going to be implemented. freisin ag iarraidh regler dochta dainge a leagadh síos at niveau in europa gaen aon solúbthacht ann do in the countries not do in the region things to do that are important don the place itself, níl aon chiall laws without ach oiread. therefore, it is unlikely that the commission will be able to work in the future to prove that it has the necessary knowledge.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which i shadowed through the agriculture committee. this report takes stock of how reforms since 2013 have been working in terms of job creation in rural areas, and looks forward to a cap post-2020. after consulting with various interested parties in my constituency, i tabled a number amendments that would sought to draw attention to the devastating impact austerity policies have had on the social fabric of rural areas. i was happy that the majority of my amendments were included in the final text, so that the final result was a progressive text. of note are paragraphs on the skills migrant workers and refugees can bring to rural areas, the needs for more supports for women in farming, the need to bring more equality to the way cap is distributed and the need to strengthen social security, services and infrastructure in rural areas to promote job growth.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the vote on the report on how the cap can improve job creation in rural areas, because the report focused on cap reform rather than job creation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report ‘how the cap can improve job creation in rural areas’ and i was very happy that it passed. i was pleased that the report noted the importance of maintaining the two pillars of the cap and the need for member states to give young farmers long-term prospects in order to address rural depopulation and to make full use of all the possibilities provided under the new cap to support young farmers and new entrants to farming (especially those aged over 40). i was also happy that the rapporteur called upon member states to step up their support for small and medium-sized farms, in particular by making more use of the redistributive payment. in regard to prevention tools, i was very happy to support the establishment of observatories, like the milk market observatory, in all major production areas in order to monitor markets which would help steer production and ensure a response to crises by means of flexible and responsive market management tools which would be activated when necessary. finally, i supported the reference to the possible negative effects that trade deals may pose to eu agriculture.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, as it was not the appropriate place or method to look at future reform of the cap.
i've been against this change for many years now, but i've been to the herbert reul organization for a few weeks, and i've been to the fhianaise and i've been to the shláinte, and i've been to the hospital. and now i'm coming here today and also there's more evidence that we don't have any laws to change and that we should stop changing laws and the sooner we do it the better. the commission is right: we need a harmonised approach, and that means that only the commission can bring about this change; member states cannot do it individually. all the evidence is there now that this needs to happen. why do we deny scientific evidence of social jetlag? many people suffer as a result of the change of time, as if they had jetlag. also health has been mentioned. accidents, and this supposedly beneficial aspect from the point of view of climate change. there are no benefits. for me actually it happens next saturday. autumn will finish next saturday; winter will be advanced by a month; it will come in overnight. people will stop going for walks in the afternoon. it's ok for mr. tarabella to talk about floodlights; they're not available to most people, and, as well as that, the energy consumption will go up, and then next year, spring will be postponed by about a month, which has a huge impact in terms of social activity, games, sport you name it. i was very interested in what one of our speakers mentioned: that 73% of germans are against the change. i would say that reflects the feeling right across europe, and, indeed, if they had the evidence which we have now here today, i think the figures would actually go up. so why won't the commission come forward with something that actually matters to the citizens; that the citizens are in favour of doing; that nobody can do for them, only the commission, and they will get great praise for it. i think it's a no-brainer, as we say in english. i'll give you another example. this saturday, many of the hotels in my constituency will close for the winter. the season is over. again, the evidence is there that hotels and bookings drop by over 7% or more as soon as we switch over. so if there was no changeover, if we had summertime all year round, everyone would benefit: health wise, socially, young people and the economy. so at least commission: come forward with a proposal. if it fails, it fails, but i guarantee you it would be a success and you will get some praise for so doing. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mario draghi, you said you were going to listen, you spoke about credibility, you spoke about legacy issues. your credibility and the credibility of the ecb are intrinsically interlinked. in 2007, jonathan sugarman was risk manager at the unicredit bank in ireland. that summer, jonathan officially reported to the regulator in the irish central bank a multi—billion—euro liquidity breach amounting to 20 times the permissible deviations. there was no sanction by the central bank and the breaches continued, forcing sugarman to resign. in february 2010, irish finance minister brian lenihan stated that the financial regulator maintains close communications with the regulator of other member states. in 2007 you were the governor of banca d’italia, with unicredit the biggest bank on your watch. you spoke about transparency. answer this: can you please confirm whether you were informed by the central bank of ireland of these multi—billion—euro breaches at unicredit dublin? if so, can you explain why that bank has never been sanctioned, and now that you know this what are you going to do about it? you spoke about the cohesion of europe being tested. you are testing it. answer this question, otherwise you test it further. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – we were told that mr draghi was answerable to the european parliament. unfortunately, whenever i make any attempt to ask him this question at the committee on economic and monetary affairs, i am refused because apparently i am not a member. i am a member of this parliament, and i am asking him now. people are waiting with baited breath: what did you know about this? we need an answer. people are watching, and we want one.
i wrote it. as a result of a survey on banking in ireland, it is known that there is an european central bank to support the demand for banking in ireland. now, we're gonna have to go home and wait for the cops to come and get us. they are in the same bath as the tharrtháil muintir in héireann agus is still in the dtartháil acu. the main banks are also obliged to apply the same mortgage rates as the laws in force, although they are still twice as high as the average in the euro area. over 100,000 people have watched and laughed. the government is not a police force, but a police force. there is no reason to recommend that the ecb should not be careful about the fall in interest rates. without the don phobal masla you are under bhrú regarding the lena dtithe connate to choimeád. the ecb should have the duties and responsibilities to take account of the impact of its policies on the global environment.
madam president, on wednesday this parliament will vote on a resolution that i co-authored with other meps. this resolution asks parliament to refer the canadian trade deal, ceta, to the european court of justice to decide if the proposed investor protection courts are compatible with the eu treaties. these investor protection courts appoint their own judges and they are not answerable to national or european courts. president juncker, in one of his first speeches to this house, said: ‘my commission will not accept that the jurisdiction of courts in eu member states be limited by special regimes for investor-to-state disputes’. yet that is exactly what is happening. i am horrified that ireland has provisionally signed this deal without rigorous debate and vote in our dáil. we are the only country in the eu not to have these special investor courts in our legislation and yet we will leave ourselves open to multi-million-euro claims in these courts if we agree the deal. our seanad voted to reject the deal and the very least our dáil can do is to debate and vote on ceta. in this context i hope this parliament will vote on wednesday to support the resolution if for nothing else but to have legal certainty.
madam president, recently two eu-funded independent reports into media ownership in ireland documented the chilling effect denis o’brien, one of the largest shareholders of ireland’s print and broadcast media, is having on media freedom and plurality in ireland. now, in spite of his domination of the media industry and his history as a serial litigator of journalists, it is revealed that his sphere of influence stretches to the broadcast media watchdog, the broadcasting authority of ireland (bai). in february 2015 a mr nigel heneghan was appointed to the bai watchdog without public consultation or competition despite his pr company being a client of the same denis o’brien by representing his print media company and the business interests of siteserve. concerns of conflicts of interest were brushed aside and to this day mr heneghan sees no problem with adjudicating on complaints to the watchdog about his client mr o’brien’s broadcast companies. media freedom in ireland is under serious threat and the next european centre for press and media freedom report will likely show no change. it seems that our politicians are too scared to act when it comes to dealing with the media.
madam president, last month a former taoiseach (prime minister) of ireland and former eu ambassador to washington, john bruton, appeared before a committee in the british house of lords to discuss the impact of brexit, or britain leaving the eu, on its closest neighbour, ireland. he said that brexit might deal ireland’s economy an even heavier blow then britain’s, even though we had no say in the referendum. already we have seen the impact of the changes on sterling. this has had an immediate effect on small businesses, particularly those that export. their exports are less competitive, they are more expensive on the shelves and when dealing with uk relationships. imports from britain are cheaper, thus putting further pressure on small businesses in ireland. britain takes two-fifths, or 40%, of exports from ireland. beef and dairy are already feeling a strong impact, as is the mushroom sector, which exports 80% of its production to britain. undoubtedly, the impact of brexit on ireland – as has been said by others and not just in our country – is going to be severe, and it needs to be ensured that this is reflected in the negotiations as we move forward.
the next item is the report by emmanuel maurel, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to anti-money-laundering information by tax authorities (com(2016)0452 – c8—0333/2016 – 2016/0209(cns)) (a8—0326/2016).
madam president, this is been a very interesting and also a very necessary debate. there has been virtual unanimity that we need to do something in the interest of citizens to establish fairer play for everybody. citizens feel that governments, democracy, are not serving them at this point in time. in the whole area of tax collection there is obviously a misfit, with citizens paying every single penny and powerful individuals and companies often not paying at all. even worse, money goes to money laundering and financing terrorist activities. so obviously, as has been said, there is need for a central register, there is need for transparency, there is need for country-by-country reporting, and this is a necessary first step to ensure that there is fair play for everybody.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place shortly. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the draft council implementing decision approving the conclusion by the european police office (europol) of the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between ukraine and europol and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ this proposal has the objective of supporting and strengthening action by the competent authorities of the member states and their mutual cooperation in preventing and combating organised crime, terrorism and other forms of serious crime affecting two or more member states, and may concern the exchange of operational, strategic or technical information, including personal data and classified information. the conclusion of this new international agreement is proposed on the basis of the europol council decision as it is currently in force (decision 2009/371/jha). however, the ep and council have concluded negotiations on a new regulation for europol (2013/0091(cod)), in which the procedure for concluding international agreements, as well as the relevant provisions and safeguards for the classification of eu documents or the protection of personal data of european citizens, are significantly modified, which follows the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. therefore, i abstained from the final vote in order to defend the role of the parliament and ensure proper scrutiny of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that strengthens the mutual fight against organised crime.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the request for waiver of the immunity of jean-francois jalkh and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ following serious depletion of four of europe’s cod stocks to well below sustainable levels by the early 2000s, the eu imposed stringent rules on the industry through the first cod recovery plan in 2004 (revised in 2008; regulation 1342/2008). the scientific evaluation report on the performance of the 2008 cod plan concluded the plan had not achieved its objectives. the aim of the proposal was to amend the existing regulation of 2008 for a long-term plan for cod stocks. it suggested inter alia to: insert a certain flexibility into the rules on total allowable catches; better harmonise the calculation of fishing effort; insert new and amended incentives into the system of fishing effort restrictions which aim at avoiding cod and reducing discards. i fully supported the aim of this proposal which was to amend the rules currently in force for cod stocks (a long-term plan, also known as the cod recovery plan, which has been in force since 2008). the agreed draft regulation discontinues the existing effort regime known as “days at sea” as it would have prevented the full application of the landing obligation (which is being phased in and will apply to all stocks by 2019) to the areas of the cod plan - thus granting more flexibility to fishermen.
go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin. i voted for my group in all these votes, it is important that we should be able to take part in the debate here in parliament; we would do well to teach almost anyone about this subject. caithfimid troid i gcoinne in caimiléireacht i gcoitinne, especially when the sea is the healu to the cháin to íoc. the people will be able to pay for every euro of tax they pay and they will also be able to make sure that people have the power to pay for the bodies they have to pay; they will be able to use the money they have to pay for the services they provide. therefore, it is agreed that in countries where there is a threat of such a situation, the sooner the better. go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin.
in writing. – i supported the report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2011/16/eu as regards access to anti-money-laundering information by tax authorities and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i vote in favour of this report on the european commission’s proposal to enable tax authorities in the eu to have access to national anti-money-laundering information. one area identified by the commission in its recent efforts to boost tax transparency is to ensure that tax authorities have greater access to data provided under the eu’s anti-money-laundering rules, particularly information on beneficial owners, such as checking the identity of customers and monitoring account activity for suspicious transactions. anti-money-laundering information will now be included in mandatory automatic exchanges between national tax authorities, transmitting documents and information within six months of their collection to a member state in which a beneficial owner is a taxpayer.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which aims to find new solutions to combat the concealment of offshore funds through increased transparency.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report in light of the rapporteur’s measured appraisal of the european system of central banks and the euro system’s monetary policy. in particular i appreciate that price stability, transparency and the economic policies of the european union provided a keystone for such a report in a welcome return to a stocktaking objective of the exercise. above all, from an irish perspective i am pleased to see brexit and its implications occupying a central position in this report. the integrity of the single market must remain respected in this transition, and i am hopeful that the necessary rules and regulations will be established in order to maintain financial stability throughout this process. in supporting this report i am confident that the combination of sound fiscal policies and ambitious reform programmes will guide economic policy for the eu.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european central bank annual report for 2015 and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this balanced report that outlines caution as well as some positive steps that need to be taken in a number of fields by the ecb. it highlights the reality of how persistently low interest rates are a growing problem, given their potential to undermine monetary policy transmission mechanisms. it also correctly identifies that the negative effects from this could be risks to private savings, a damaging reduction in bank profitability, impediments to the sound functioning of pension funds, inflation of asset bubbles and governments feeling less pressure to carry out structural reforms. on a more positive note, the report broadly supports the ecb’s actions to deal with the difficult economic outlook, especially its endeavour to return to a sound level of inflation, and calls for the completion of the banking union and the establishment of a capital market union.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is carried out annually and assesses the activities of the ecb.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the green paper on retail financial services and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this green paper on retail financial services that calls on the removal of unnecessary barriers in the european retail financial market. the aim of this report is to improve choice, transparency and competition in the retail financial services sector to the benefit of european consumers through true cross-border supply of these services, so that financial firms can make the most of the economies of scale in a truly integrated eu market. furthermore, the report took into account the impact of digitalisation on retail financial services with a view to allowing for growth of innovative solutions in this area in the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which considers the simplification of legislation to make it easier to compare financial products in all member states.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the european defence union due to ireland’s position on neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the report as i felt that it went too far in terms of harmonising security and defence policy at eu level. i also believe that for neutral countries, such as ireland, an eu defence union undercuts this long-standing policy. finally, i do not believe that it is in the interest of the eu to use funds in the budget on defence spending.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
mr president, waterborne transport plays a central role in the development of a more efficient and sustainable european transport sector. i therefore support the recommendations of this report, given its identification of the extraordinary opportunity the geography of our member states presents. in the combination of our common policies of safety, environment, trans-border cooperation, competition and accessibility, we may bolster more sustainable mobility across our member states. i particularly appreciate that this would have a significant effect on the social and economic welfare of our citizens, whilst laying the ground for further development and innovation in this sector, and also with innovative developments help us in moving towards a low-carbon transport sector. this is vital in all areas: road, sea and air.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on unleashing the potential of waterborne passenger transport and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution as waterborne passenger transport plays a crucial role in connecting the different regions of the european union especially in areas such as shipping, inland and maritime ferries, urban and peripheral mobility, cruises and tourism. i welcome the efforts of the wpt sector to switch to cleaner, energy-efficient ships with lower emissions, developed as part of a european framework aimed at making waterborne transport greener.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which acknowledges the importance of waterways as a mode of transport in europe.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on increasing the effectiveness of development cooperation and noted no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it will help the most vulnerable.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this motion. i support the call on development actors to build on the commitments made from paris to busan, and to renew and reinforce their efforts to make development cooperation as effective as possible with a view to achieving the ambitious goals and targets set out in the 2030 agenda and making the best use of public and private resources for development.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ the eu has a long-standing commitment to development cooperation. i voted in favour of this report encompassing the sustainable development goals.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the skills guarantee intends to target those people who are most in need of training and upskilling or who have a low proficiency in basic literacy and numeracy and digital skills, and there is a definite need for training and upskilling for those who, for whatever reason, have difficulty with literacy, numeracy or digital skills. the skills guarantee, when established, must seek to do that in a holistic manner so that not only do these people develop and hone new skills, but so that they also become critical, confident and independent individuals and achieve their full potential. it is also important that the skills guarantee involves civil society, education providers and trade unions in order for it to be successful, as these are the organisations that know how to reach out to the people who will benefit the most from upskilling pathways. but to conclude on a slightly less positive note, the skills guarantee comes under the new skills agenda, which is a commission initiative that seeks to get european educational institutions to do the bidding of private interests, creating insecurity in the labour market while calling it ‘flexibility’, and compromising education systems with demands of private industry interests. it is imperative that the skills guarantee does not follow the trend of submissively adapting education and training to the labour market.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am very pleased to be a co-signatory to this motion on sign languages and professional sign language interpretation. i applaud the important role of my colleagues, ádám kósa and helga stevens, in initiating this motion. it is, of course, a follow—on to helga’s very successful event in the parliament on sign language, where i had the opportunity to meet a number of irish people from the deaf community. but tonight, the question is: how can we progress the initiative? one opportunity is the implementation of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, where the convention elaborates on the need for reasonable accommodation. but we all know that there can be no reasonable accommodation without the provision of qualified and professional sign language interpreters. for this to happen, we need many things, but, crucially, we need to see official recognition of national and regional sign languages in member states and in the eu institutions. i want to acknowledge the campaign that is underway in ireland to achieve formal recognition of the irish sign language. in ireland, approximately 40 000 people use the irish sign language, 5000 of whom are deaf and 35 000 are family and friends. at national and eu level, we must make the educational system, the health system, the judicial system, the political system and many other public systems as accessible as possible. speaking of the education system, we must ensure that the deaf, hard of hearing and deaf—blind can access erasmus.
i would like to thank helga stevens for her contribution to the debate. it is important for us to have the courage and the means to achieve the right language in europe and in our own member states. it is a rune that gives rise to the necessary rithabhachtacha that is necessary for the phobal bodhar to be included. agus is maith an rud is sin. in éirinn le déanaí, chuaigh bille tríd an seanad a thug aitheantas an isl, an teanga chomharthaíochta atá againn sa bhaile, agus tá sé práinneach aitheantas iomlán a thabhairt do phobal na mbodhar anois. in ireland, the bill was passed by the seanad on the same day as the election of the president of the republic of ireland. "i am very pleased that the united nations has a right to recognise ireland, and i am very pleased that the members of the isl have the right to recognise ireland". it is an opportunity to discuss the future of europe and to work together to achieve a common language and common interests. and again, my mile danke le helga as ucht is seo to thabhairt chun solais. caithfimid, sea and deirim, stand together with each other in the quarrel within the aithint.
mr president, this is an extremely important topic, because people dying from pollution – and particularly air pollution – is something that is seen across the world. last week, i had the privilege of being in marrakech with commissioner arias cañete, among others, and the chinese in particular were telling us about the efforts they are making to try and combat air pollution in their cities. last year, i was honoured to represent parliament in vietnam. it was obvious there, again, that air pollution is a big problem. in our own countries, we have similar problems in many places, and, indeed, one of the things that our government did a number of years ago, under the then minister for health, micheál martin, was to ban smoking in public areas. it transformed the air quality in restaurants and bars, etc., so i think we have to do everything to ensure that the quality of air that people have is second—to—none, because otherwise people will continue to die.
madam president, like my colleagues i must say it was a pleasure to attend the morocco cop22, having been in paris last year for the historical global agreement. thanks indeed to the slovak presidency, commissioner cañete and the commission, and my colleagues under the chairmanship of the excellent mr la via. also there is thanks due to morocco itself, it was a good location because they gave an example of moving to low-carbon economy: they have the largest solar plant in the world and electric cars were used to ferry people around from place to place. some people were worried about the impact of the presidential elections. i left much less worried then when i went there, for two reasons. number one: the united states themselves have indicated that in many states there are movements to decarbonise the economy, both at official level and at business level. this is not going to change in states like california, florida, pennsylvania, and so on. number two: china, in reply to a question i put to them directly as to whether they would use the election in the united states to renege, or to attain the opportunity for global leadership on this issue, they said they would continue with global leadership on the path they promised last year. so i think we can be encouraged. the word that we can use to describe this movement now is ‘unstoppable’. in answer to mr helmer, the climate change movement is alive and well, not dead; it is alive and well and living across the world. it will continue to grow. we have to do an awful lot, especially in relation to the developing countries. the eur 100 billion fund will have to be attained. energy use in africa is going to treble over the next number of years, and double in southeast asia. so we have to help those countries, because they are also anxious to move, as they see the actual effects – on a daily basis – of global warming and climate change to their economies.
in writing. ‒ i supported parliament’s calendar of part—sessions – 2018.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted against the motion for resolution on an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between canada and the european union on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta). ceta should be implemented very soon so that eu citizens and business can reap the benefits of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as i believe this proposed agreement must be tested under european law given it has far reaching consequences if ever enacted.
in writing. ‒ as one of the authors of the resolution i strongly supported this motion. i believe it is essential to refer the canadian trade deal to the european court of justice in order to establish if the commission’s investment court system proposal is compatible with the eu treaties. this is the first eu trade deal which includes a form of isds and is with a country that has as robust and developed a judicial system as our own. these investor protection courts appoint their own judges and are not answerable to national or eu courts. president juncker in one of his first speeches in the parliament said ‘my commission will not accept that the jurisdiction of courts in the eu member states be limited by special regimes for investor-state disputes’ yet this is precisely what is happening. ireland is the only country in the eu which does not have these investor protection courts in any bilateral trade agreements, yet we will leave ourselves open to multimillion euro claims in these special courts if the trade deal is ratified. this resolution is not anti—ceta and is merely asking for legal certainty on this important issue.
go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin. ghlacas took part in the debate on this subject this morning and it was clear that there was more than one way to do something about the air pollution around the world; this is seen in many countries, including countries within the european union, but especially in places like china and vietnam. there was a lot of fear that there would be a flood in vietnam and it was clear that the air was polluted. people were afraid of being killed because of it. but now they are trying to do something about it and it is a matter of making sure that the promise made in cop 21 is not implemented and that after cop 22 in marrakech, the promise is fulfilled. i also put my own clothes on the table to be worn in public places like the bialann agus tithe tabhairne agus cabhróidh se go mór. go raibh míle maith agat. what are you doing?
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants and amending directive 2003/35/ec.
in writing. ‒ along with the majority of meps, i supported this report on the emission of certain atmospheric pollutants which was agreed on with the council. air pollution a major health risk in the eu that causes more than 400 000 premature deaths each year. it is a cross-border threat that should be tackled at the european level. this directive aims to achieve this by:- updating reduction targets for 2020 based on the current nec directive for certain pollutants;- new reduction targets for 2030 for the same pollutants. it is hoped that such measures will avoid tens of thousands of premature deaths annually and improve the quality of the environment. meeting the new targets will cut the negative health effects of pollution by half by 2030. tackling air pollution also brings economic benefits to society, since the economic cost of the health impacts of air pollution is estimated at 3-9% of gdp. i would like to point out that methane will not be part of this directive as was originally planned by the ep it will be dealt with under separate legislation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that seeks to place a limit on the overall amount of pollutants in the air and thereby improve our air quality and environment.
mr president, as noted in the resolution, attention must be paid to the specificities of european bank models, the markets they operate in and the varying size of the institutions. the basel iii reform measures should not be tossed into effect without clear appreciation of the fact that, whilst opportunity occupies one side of the coin, threats to that very sense of opportunity lie on the other side. speaking from an irish perspective, i can appreciate the ways in which basel iii has made the system more stable, but i am also worry that the increased instability may curtail opportunities for profit-making. these matters are worse for countries on the periphery, such as ireland, where, between 2007 and 2015, investment as measured by gross fixed capital formation crashed from an average of 25.9% to 20.9% of gross domestic product. the discussion is a good one, and i hope to observe further improvement in ensuring competitive positioning for all banks.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions – finalisation of basel iii.
in writing. ‒ while i agree that we all need a stable, safe, secure banking system, the system that currently exists isn’t it. again, while i agree that banks should be regulated (and the more the better), introducing more legislation when that which already exists isn’t implemented is a bit of a joke – witness what happened to jonathan sugarman when he blew the whistle on major breaches of regulation in ireland. we need an entirely new banking system, a system controlled by national governments, a system in which money creation is likewise controlled by national governments but to the benefit of the people (as in no/low interest rates) and not – as is currently the case – to the benefit of banks and financiers. that is why i voted against this piece of legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the finalisation of basel iii. basel iii is part of the continuous effort to enhance the banking regulatory framework. it builds on the basel i and basel ii documents, and seeks to improve the banking sector’s ability to deal with financial stress, improve risk management, and strengthen the banks’ transparency. a focus of basel iii is to foster greater resilience at the individual bank level in order to reduce the risk of system-wide shocks. however while this is being addressed on several levels of the banking union, i was happy to support an amendment to this resolution that highlights that regulation has not been sufficiently addressed around the ‘too big to fail’ banks, such as was seen in the deutsche bank case recently.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that refines banking frameworks.
mr president, eu common security and defence is further evidence of the unrelenting push for the militarisation of europe at all levels, from coordinated security and defence policy through to an eu army. at its core, the csdp report militaristically demands more investment in defence and defence research for member states to reach the nato capacity target of a minimum of 2% of gdp. it demands more money from the eu general budget to be allocated to defence spending and demands a strong munitions and defence industry in europe. this report is symptomatic of the ever—growing militarisation of the european union that is driven by the unelected commissioners and larger member states. the use of the result of the brexit referendum to push ahead with these militaristic aims is utterly unscrupulous, as is the undermining of the neutrality of member states such as ireland. instead of focusing on the militarisation of the eu, can we not redouble our efforts to tackle poverty, hunger, land rights, climate change, citizen participation and economic inequalities?
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy due to ireland’s position on neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i abstained because ireland is neutral country and should stay as one.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. i believe there were many positive elements to the report and i do agree with the assertion that the eu faces new threats which are hybrid and often cross borders. as well as that, i do agree that the european security environment has deteriorated considerably over the past few years and has become more fluid and more complex. nevertheless, i felt that the report went too far in terms of harmonising security and defence policy at eu level. for example, i am not in favour of requiring member states to allocate 2% of their gdp towards defence spending. again, i believe this should be a decision taken at member state level. however, i was in favour of some aspects: for example, i supported the call for strong preventive policies based on comprehensive deradicalisation programmes to be used against all forms of extremism.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
mr president, i supported this proposal, sharing the rapporteur’s belief that combating anti-eu propaganda and disinformation by third countries is essential – in the first place to uphold democratic values and a united europe. eu citizens cannot effectively legitimise us, and the work we do on their behalf, if they do not have access to accurate information. speaking from an irish point of view, investing in education in order to equip the public better for critical thinking has long been a priority. as franklin d. roosevelt stated, democracy cannot succeed unless those who express their choice are prepared to choose wisely. given the prevalence of disinformation, stemming in particular nowadays from electronic means of dissemination such as social media, it is imperative that we collaborate on deconstructing such propaganda. i therefore welcome the recommendations offered in this report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on eu strategic communication to counteract propaganda against it by third parties.
in writing. ‒ i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution. while i think that the safety of european citizens is of paramount importance, and equally, that they should not be subject to propaganda and misinformation at the hands of foreign entities, i do not believe it is appropriate to class isis/daesh on a par with the russian federation. in doing so, we risk legitimising and recognising the terrorist group as the government of the area in which they exert de facto control.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ disinformation, propaganda and fake news are having an impact on the proper function of european democracy. europe needs to enhance cooperation with third parties to combat this threat effectively.
mr president, sign languages represent europe’s multicultural and multilingual heritage, and i am pleased to offer my support for improving the quality of the sign language interpreting profession. hard-of-hearing, deaf and deaf—blind citizens should not be disabled by their working environment from equal access to the same information and communication as their peers. in ireland the recognition of irish sign language for the deaf community bill 2016 is currently being reviewed. this would mean, if passed, that irish sign language would be designated as a native and independent language – one which is used as a permanent means of communication by over 5 000 members of the deaf community. additionally, gps can now easily access professional sign language interpreters for deaf medical care patients, thanks to a new agreement between the health authority, hse, and the sign language interpreting service. i think we are heading in the right direction. in particular, i look forward to discussion on how to utilise language technologies in providing equal access for all to the digital space.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on sign language and professional sign language interpreters.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour as it has obvious tangible benefits for the deaf community.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that clearly states that all citizens, all persons with disabilities including those who use sign language and those who don’t, all have equal rights and are entitled to equal treatment, independent living, autonomy and full participation in society. there are currently 51 million deaf sign language users in the eu and 51 million hard of hearing citizens. the eu needs to combat discrimination based on defining and implementing its policies and activities. one opportunity we can use in ireland, is the ratification of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities which clearly articulates that all persons including those in the deaf, deaf blind and hard of hearing community are entitled to full participation in society. this convention also elaborates on the need for reasonable accommodation, but there can be no reasonable accommodation without the provision of qualified and professional sign language interpreters. for this to happen one crucial requirement is the have official recognition of national and regional sign languages in the member states and within eu institutions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of increasing accessibility of communication with sign language.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the motion for resolution on the objection pursuant to rule 106: renewing the approval of the active substance bentazone, as its safety has yet to be confirmed.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the objection.
in writing. ‒ the objection focused exclusively on procedural aspects of this pesticide authorisation. for one, certain data had still been requested from the applicant in the so-called ‘confirmatory data procedure’, a practice which had been heavily criticised by the european ombudsman in a decision from february 2016. on top of that, the commission granted the authorisation for a full 15 years despite this lack of data on human and animal toxicity as well as ecotoxicity, as stated in the efsa review. the original authorisation for bentazone was granted in august 2001 and expired at the end of 2015. however, com implementing regulation (eu) 2016/549 extended the expiry date for bentazone by 1.5 years until 30 june 2017 in order to allow the renewal process to be completed before the expiry of the approval. the current draft implementing regulation proposes to renew the authorisation of bentazone until january 2032. the european parliament has no formal right of veto on this implementing regulation but can give its opinion prior to the vote by the member states. the draft was presented to the standing committee on phytopharmaceuticals for opinion in the meeting of 7/8 october.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this resolution as it goes against the commission proposal of renewing the authorisation of bentazone.
mr president, one of the reasons why we have fraud in vat is because people are required, due to crippling austerity, to go outside the law for basic goods. essential goods are made more expensive. the greens representative mentioned tampons and women’s sanitary products. the economic and social research institute in ireland found that groups hardest hit by vat were households in the poorest income decile – households in rural areas, six-person households and those containing a single adult with children. i hear people say that vat gives people choice. where is the choice for low income families? the only people who really have choice with vat are the rich. it is inequitable, and those who can afford to pay the most should pay the most. in ireland, our vat take is around eur 10 billion per year. this year alone we are going to burn two billion we already have on promissory note bonds. we get nothing back for it. we are also going to give away billions to apple in tax. fill that hole by taxing what should be taxed and get rid of this inequitable tax – and also stay out of our tax affairs. we are sovereign on that.
mr president, i want to congratulate my colleague mr langen on his report. i think it is an important marker to the commission to bring forward new proposals and i also think it is important that we have a vat collection system that is fit for purpose. this is supposed to be a single market: why these distortions can be allowed to occur is a fundamental issue. also, in the digital world, we know it is difficult to make sure we can track down these payments. so we need a system that is fit for purpose. we also need a collection system that actually brings in the money. there is very little point in having vat rates unless we have a technologically sound collection system that can bring the money in, to close the deficits in all our member states. lastly, it is important that the reverse charging mechanism is included in the report. this does point to new ways of doing business. if we can learn from that as a pilot project, we should do so, because ultimately this is about closing the gap – making sure that the eur 50 billion that is out there, cross-border, is brought home to member states so that we can close deficits.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am glad we are having this debate on this important piece of legislation here in plenary this evening. it is the outcome of an important and positive negotiation, for which i want to thank everyone in this chamber. in june of this year, we reached agreement with the dutch council presidency: i believe this is a good outcome for european pensioners, and we have brought more protection, more transparency and more security to the way that occupational funds are managed across europe. i believe we have achieved the right balance between respecting differences between member states’ individual pension schemes and encouraging pension mobility within the european union. although this is a minimum harmonisation directive, it is also an extremely sensitive piece of legislation in that we are dealing with other people’s money here. we are dealing with people who have saved money, who have put that money aside, and we must always respect that. this has been a guiding principle that i had in the course of the negotiations. i want to highlight the excellent working partnership in parliament’s negotiating team, and that applies to all my colleagues and all the political groups. i was proud of the fact that we received a very broad majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i want to thank my colleagues, here this evening, who worked with me as their rapporteur and i also want to thank the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on women’s rights and gender equality for their work in terms of the opinions they gave on the proposal. i especially want to thank the secretariat of the economic and affairs committee for the excellent work they did and the expertise they brought to this issue. ultimately, i believe parliament’s position was upheld very strongly in the negotiations, and i want to highlight some of our achievements. on funding provisions, we managed to ensure that under-funding can occur when doing cross-border business. currently under-funding is not permitted for cross-border activity, and this has caused a great deal of uncertainty for cross-border pension business. we brought clarity to this area, and we have ensured that appropriate action should be taken by regulators to correct the situation. on cross-border transfers we have ensured that when a pension scheme is being transferred to another member state there is just one single authorisation from the regulator of the host member state along with prior consent from the home member state regulator. both regulators must assess a limited list of criteria when approving transfers. the transfer must also be approved by members and beneficiaries of the scheme – a crucial issue. these procedures have never been set out before in eu legislation, so we have made advances here. on the pension benefit statement, this annual statement to members and beneficiaries on their pension rights has been turned from a very prescriptive and fully harmonised statement into a principles-based approach, and therefore we have more flexibility in terms of using parliament’s proposed structure. we have also ensured that members and beneficiaries receive, at the very least, the key information on their contributions, the costs, the guarantees and the projections within their scheme. we have ensured that the depository function remains as a member state option, so as to take into account the variety of pension systems and the way in which depository activities can be conducted. on environmental, social and government (esg) risks for occupational pension funds: under this directive, we now have to assess these risks when making investment decisions. this idea follows the work of the united nations. this is the first financial services directive in which such a requirement has been incorporated. it was a crucial issue for many members of parliament’s negotiating team, and we have achieved that. on intergenerational balance, it has been recognised in the text that there should be intergenerational solidarity between younger and older members of a pension scheme, so that younger generations should not be disproportionately burdened if there are losses in the scheme. i am optimistic that this directive can pave the way for a stronger internal market for pensions across the european union, but i also feel that it can kick-start a real debate on pensions in the eu – a debate that is much needed here. lastly, can i make this remark: i hope that we will recast the debate on pensions, which is necessary in a situation where so many people who are currently working across the 28 eu member states lack pension cover for the future. that is an issue that we need to address in a creative and constructive way.
rapporteur. – mr president, i promise on this occasion i will stick under my two minutes. i want to express my thanks for all of the contributions that have been made. as people have said: the great news is we are living longer, and we have got to respond to the demographic needs across the european union, but we have also got to respect the fact that we have, within the european union, many different pension schemes, different pillars, and that has to be respected. so our principle of having minimum harmonisation, respecting member states, and doing that in a framework, is at the heart of this proposal. i think it is really important that we send out a strong message to encourage employers and employees, which is a great european tradition in terms of the social market economy, to start saving and putting money aside. we are not going to do that if we impose new solvency requirements on pensions, if we impose new taxation on pensions. now is the time for people to save, to ensure they have an adequate income into the future, and the way to do that is to make sure that we get this proposal right. others have spoken about the challenges. yes, this is a low interest rate environment. it is an enormous challenge for pension schemes to yield the return that they need. we have seen a move from defined benefit to defined contribution schemes within the second pillar. there is a clear funding gap for many of these schemes. that is why we need a period of certainty and not to start having enormous regulatory burdens placed on the industry right now. i am particularly proud of the fact that we have managed to put in place a better regime for cross-border pension provision and for cross-border schemes in terms of the fully funded arrangement, and also in terms of the clear rules for home and host. this is a major advance to ensure that we can get more take-up of cross-border pension schemes. finally, this has to be seen within the context of cmu, within the context of aligning our pension policy towards jobs, investment and growth across the european union. if we do that we will make a success of that into the future by protecting people’s real incomes into the future.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, on behalf of the committee on development, and the opinion, we managed to bring near unanimity in terms of our committee. we welcome this report and congratulate mrs bearder for the work that she has done; equally we congratulate the commission on their ambitious action plan. it is worth saying that we are talking here about an illegal activity, which has been recognised to be close to usd 19 billion in terms of its scale globally. we are talking about the fourth largest illegal activity on the planet and europe is not just a taker of this illegal activity; it is also a significant transit point. so we have responsibilities. we have signed up to a un convention and, as the commissioner has said, it is now about implementation. it is about getting it done, member state by member state, and calling out those member states where there is an insufficiency of response in terms of that un mandate. so we very much support what mrs bearder has put forward in this particular resolution. the committee on development fully supports the work that she has brought to parliament in terms of this plenary session. we expect substantial support for this in the house tomorrow. it is worth saying, as she rightly said, that the public is ahead of politicians here. the public is demanding action on this illegal activity. they are demanding an international coordinated response and if it does not start here within the european union, across the 28 member states, it cannot start anywhere, and i think that is the message that needs to come from this debate this evening.
mr president, thank you commissioner for coming to respond to the question, and i would also like to thank those who have brought us to this point. i am sure, commissioner, that you hear from the floor here tonight the many concerns that various members have. they want to be involved, and the point has been made very clearly by a number of colleagues that if you could engage early with parliament and get its views on board, it will save trouble or conflict down the road. i hope that that will not come, but the views of parliamentarians are important and i hope that you will take them on board. i very much welcome the agreements that you are hoping to make with other countries, and i think they are very important. you said it yourself: it is so that eu airlines can tap in to other markets. i think that that is important. we tend to see it so much from the other side: it is about other airlines coming here and availing themselves of the lucrative market that is the european union. however, we should look at it from the other said too, and the value that is there for european airlines to tap into markets and to bring customers, those who would be carrying out business and passengers to those markets. indeed on the return leg too it would bring tourists, business and consumers to europe. the facts speak for themselves. previous air agreements have been very successful and have led to a growing aviation market, so i really would appeal to you following tonight’s debate to set up structures so that the european parliament can be informed and be kept up to date on the progress and the content of the negotiations.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes).
that concludes the vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council providing further macro-financial assistance to the hashemite kingdom of jordan.
in writing. ‒ i support giving further aid to jordan. jordan has had to handle the effects of the war in syria, including hosting more than one million syrian refugees. as a result, i believe that the eu should provide assistance to the jordanian authorities on clearly defined economic policy and financial conditions, focusing on structural reforms and sound public finances.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
mr president, firstly i want to say that i supported this proposal and i would like to compliment my irish and epp colleague, brian hayes, the rapporteur, who did an excellent job on this report. his belief that the directive would promote the development of safe and adequate occupational pension provision systems across the member states is correct. there is no doubt that the ensuing innovation and good governance will contribute towards ensuring sufficient retirement provisions for all, which they need and deserve. this report outlines the ways and means by which pension schemes may move to another member state so that the funds can get a better return for their beneficiaries. from an irish perspective, i can appreciate the number of citizens that the directive stands to benefit, given the many irish citizens who work elsewhere within the eu. such efforts are essential in facilitating the development of occupational retirement savings. i therefore welcome the recommendations offered in this report and congratulate my colleague, mr hayes, once again.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement provision.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the activities and supervision of institutions for occupational retirement, which is a redraft of the 2003 iorps directive to facilitate the development of occupational retirement pensions in the eu. a satisfactory report has been developed in terms of the key policy areas. in particular, i am pleased with the new structures for risk management and the removal of obstacles to cross-border provision of pension services and facilitation of cross-border transfer of schemes. all or part of the assets and liabilities of occupational pension schemes can now for the first time be transferred from one member state to another
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
the president, my group and i voted in favour of the report and i will accept it tomorrow. the situation in syria continues to represent an area of grave concern for all of us here in the european union. faced with escalating hostilities and civilian casualties, i obviously voted for this motion for a solution. it is an outright condemnation of such activities. the role of russia is deeply worrying, and indeed the role of turkey is an area which we must also seriously explore, as their support for opposition groups gives rise to justified concerns as to the likelihood of a lasting political settlement. furthermore, i am deeply sorry to learn of an increase in supposed chemical gas attacks being carried out against civilians. the humanitarian aspect of this conflict must henceforth guide our engagement with syria. along with my colleagues in the epp group, i would urge participants in the syria support group to continue their good work in the crucial negotiations as we endeavour to move towards a stable truce in this most troubled part of the world.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation in syria.
in writing. ‒ the humanitarian situation in syria has worsened in the last year. the actions of isis/daesh in the region are deplorable and the international community, including the european union, should work together in order to find a peaceful solution to this conflict, which has claimed countless innocent lives. i support the calls for an immediate cessation of hostilities in the area so that desperately needed humanitarian aid can be provided. the european union should seek to take a leading role as a peacemaker in the region and aim to assist syrian civilians in need of help.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have objections.
mr president, i supported the proposal to freeze turkey’s talks on joining the eu, on the basis that the need to protect human rights and uphold democratic values is imperative. ireland has always been a strong supporter of human rights, which makes the situation in turkey a great concern for my country. the eu must send an unequivocal message that democratic values, due process and free speech are essential preconditions for eu membership, and while they are absent in turkey it makes sense to freeze talks. more than 110 000 people, in academia, the military and the legal sector, have been dismissed from their posts as part of a government crackdown in turkey since the attempted coup. not to take a stance would be to undermine the eu’s credibility as a strong global player. building on this, it is my belief that we must overcome the challenges of this watershed moment in our relations with turkey by continuing to encourage turkey’s advancement towards higher standards of democracy and human rights. europe needs to lead by example and we are happy to continue to engage with turkey. however, we must also take a strong stance on continued breaches of human rights.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for resolution on eu-turkey relations.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on the temporary freeze of the ongoing accession negotiations between the eu and turkey. this resolution is based on the serious concerns and state of emergency currently in turkey. the turkish government are in breach of the principles of liberty, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. i strongly condemn the disproportionate repressive actions taking place there and call for president erdoğan and members of the turkish government to restore the rule of law and human rights throughout the country.
mr president, eu accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women would again emphasise our clear condemnation of gender inequality. by setting legally binding standards in this sphere, we would hope to prevent gender-based violence, protect victims, identify and punish perpetrators and raise awareness across the eu. in the light of considerable disparities across the eu, in both the reporting and handling of reports of violence against women, i believe it to be essential that we speed up negotiations and the signing of this convention. the implementation and coordination of more proactive policies would therefore represent a marked step towards the protection of human rights for all. in conclusion, i would like to compliment the rapporteurs, my colleagues anna maria corazza bildt and barbara matera, for their good work and i look forward to the day when motions like this will not be necessary and when women do not suffer violence as they are unfortunately continuing to do.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on eu accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women.
in writing. ‒ i fully supported the joint resolution on eu accession to the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women. this resolution reiterates its call on the commission to combat violence against women, to submit a legal act providing a coherent system for collecting statistical data as well as a strengthened approach by member states to the prevention and suppression of all forms of violence against women and girls and of gender-based violence, and to the making of low-threshold access to justice possible. furthermore, it asks the council to activate the passerelle clause, by adopting a unanimous decision identifying violence against women and girls as an area of crime listed in article 83(1) tfeu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2015. the promotion of transparency is one of the three pillars of the commission’s new trade strategy and as a member of the itco intergroup (intergroup on integrity, transparency, corruption and organised crime) in the european parliament, i think it is imperative that the institutions strive to uphold the ideals of transparency and integrity in all aspects of european policy. in that regard, the ombudsman plays an important role in the functioning of the european union and its institutions.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
mr president, i supported this report on the fight against vat fraud. right now, irish revenue is carrying out an extensive examination and review of the flat-rate scheme for farmers and other players in the poultry sector. the commission is also investigating the matter on the basis of a complaint that a colleague and i submitted, specifically in respect of sicín co-operative society and the processor carton bros. in particular, irish revenue has said, in response to the commission, that ireland is aware there is a risk that manipulation of the price of feed sold by the processor to the co-op, and then on to the members of the co-op, could artificially increase the consideration charged by the member to the co-op for his rearing services, thereby increasing the amount of the flat-rate addition in respect of the rearing services. in my view, when the price of feed is artificially increased it increases the price of flesh and artificially increases the amount of flat-rate vat that can be claimed back. this basically means that it is taken out of the amount of vat paid by ordinary citizens on their purchases and by businesses who do not have specific arrangements. we are all the poorer for it.
mr president, i am pleased to support this report, which seeks to curb widespread fraud involving vat by establishing a reverse charging system, as excellently authored by my colleague, werner langen. putting in place a definitive vat system will help to close the vat gap, which for ireland was under 10% in 2014. this still equates to over eur 1 billion in uncollected vat revenue, which through the provisions contained in the report will hopefully be better channelled into meeting the exigencies of the country in the future. i think we are heading in the right direction, and i look forward to the evaluation of pilot programmes in other member states, which highlight how knowledge sharing and systems of best practice are central elements to the success and development of the union. the fight against fraud has to continue. during the week we also discussed fighting against money laundering and its impact on terrorist activities, etc. if we can close the gap there in a whole area of fraud, citizens would have to pay less tax and services could be improved.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report ‘towards a definitive vat system and fighting vat fraud’.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i full supported this own-initiative report on the eu action plan against wildlife trafficking. wildlife trade has become a billion-euro criminal industry dominated by organised criminal groups. the risk of detection is low and the financial reward is high, attracting criminal gangs to exploit illegally caught and removed wildlife to fund their criminal activity. there is a need to review the current eu legislation to close gaps concerning imports of illegally harvested wildlife and in particular to control imports of hunting trophies from protected species.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
mr president, i was pleased to vote in favour of this report on unlocking opportunities for small transport businesses. the sharing economy’s potential to create jobs and wealth and to tap into underused resources, its collaborative function, and even its vision for improved resource consumption, make it a good fit for modern-day society. however, the report acknowledges the impact that the take-up of digital technologies in the sector can have on working conditions. it is termed the ‘gig economy’ for a reason. our efforts are rightly focused on improving the wage-earning opportunities and ensuring competition for small transport businesses. it is important to make the economy more inclusive in this regard. ireland is in the vanguard of embracing opportunities within collaborative business models, according to a recent eurobarometer poll. i therefore welcome the recommendations offered in this report on how to ensure that the collaborative transport sector, as popularised by uber, works for everyone involved.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on new opportunities for small transport businesses, including collaborative business models.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on new opportunities for small transport business. transport business across the eu faces considerable challenges in order to respond to the increasing demand for mobility in a sector that is particularly complex concerning safety and environmental regulation. small transport businesses are finding it harder and more expensive than ever to remain in this competitive market due to over-regulation, in particular regarding access to the profession, the marketing of transport services and subsidisation. this resolution calls on the member states to end this over-regulation and specifically to improve the serious disruption that has occurred on national transport markets in several states since the introduction of regulation ec no 1072/2009.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motion for a resolution on the situation in belarus.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion. i am deeply concerned by the shortcomings observed by independent international observers during the 2015 presidential and 2016 parliamentary elections. the belarusian authorities should ensure, in all circumstances, respect for democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms, in accordance with the universal declaration of human rights and the international and regional human rights instruments ratified by belarus. this is essential for the security of the region and it should be imperative upon the union to advance the cause of human rights, democracy and rule of law throughout the world, most of all in our immediate region.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. ♪ go raibh maith agat, to the chathaoirligh. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr tarand and mr geier, for the excellent work they have done. the commission is also pleased to be able to sign the agreement on the community budget for the european union for 2017. the real member states of the european union have failed to meet the demands of the people and the people who are in need, and the annual burden on social standards is lower than ever. august is a message from the council on the 2017 budget to the european parliament, which is without a budget and has been without any payments for many years. there was another solution to the problem. there was another way to get him out. i'm the fool who's shown her again and again. we remember the council and the commission's responsibility and said they were intending to have an e e p o m e n e c i v e l e d e c t i v e s in the member states and in iceland. there is a lot of investment in europe; public services are flooded and there is a lot of people who are suffering as a result. how many more pledges have been made to the council to create jobs? where are the pledges i made to you? what are the commitments to support smes? there are many people who have been arrested and have been charged with treason. i think that the price will be much higher in the future, because the video will be more effective and the political will will be more effective. our farmers, our fishermen, our climate, our future depends on this investment. i'm glad you're here to join us in our joint efforts to save our fellow europeans.
the gue/ngl group is the leader. ♪ go raibh maith agat, to the chathaoirligh. i would like to thank the laws in the report for the work that has been done in this regard. the commissioner for the budget, mr t. korčok, has recommended that the budget allocation for 2016 be increased by eur 7.4 billion for the member states. the laws under buiséad leasaitheach uimh. 5 will be applied to contributions to the member states in 2017. i'm now after real money, and there's more to it than money. i'm not gonna take it. is droch-chinneadh, drochphlean agus drochthoradh é, like the plean junker a bhí ann chun an ae a tharrtháil rud nár dhein caithfidh mé a rá. (it is not a bad name, but it is a bad name.) and on the other hand, i'd like to start by making ireland a neutral country. we are so much more than just a stage in our history, especially in our social processes, that we cannot support the european social structure in the worst living conditions. is maith an rud is go bhfuil solúbthacht ann, ach gan dabht braitheann solúbthacht ar thosaíochtaí. what is the meaning of this? we must continue to follow the laws and regulations that we have been given.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 1 december 2016.
the next item is the report by jan philipp albrecht, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection, and prosecution of criminal offenses (08523/2016 – c8—0329/2016 – 2016/0126(nle)) (a8—0354/2016).
i am very sorry but you have had 30 seconds, and your reminding us of cheese might make us all hungry, so let’s stick to the work in hand.
i now give the floor to the rapporteur, mr olbrycht. i am sorry, i know that madam in 't veld is looking for the floor. could i ask you, madam in 't veld, if you would speak to the commissioner afterwards, or perhaps commissioner, could i ask whether the questions can be put to you in writing? we have had the debate, the commissioner has made a statement. i will give you the floor reluctantly because you had your chance during the debate, so perhaps you could very briefly make your case.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 1 december 2016. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on recent transition of the iana stewardship to the global internet community in october 2016 and the upcoming internet governance forum in mexico (6—8 december 2016) (2016/2997(rsp)).
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by salvatore cicu, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the european union solidarity fund: an assessment (2016/2045(ini)) (a8—0341/2016),– the oral question to the commission on the situation in italy after the earthquakes, by ivan jakovčić, iskra mihaylova, matthijs van miltenburg, petras auštrevičius, norica nicolai, urmas paet, remo sernagiotto, raffaele fitto, on behalf of the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe (o—000139/2016 – b8—1812/2016),– the oral question to the commission on the situation in italy after the earthquakes, by lambert van nistelrooij, antonio tajani, elisabetta gardini, salvatore cicu, constanze krehl, mercedes bresso, davor škrlec, ramón luis valcárcel siso, group of the european people’s party (christian democrats), group of the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats in the european parliament, group of the greens/european free alliance (o—000140/2016 – b8—1813/2016),– the oral question to the commission on the situation in italy after the earthquakes, by rosa d’amato, laura agea, fabio massimo castaldo, isabella adinolfi, rolandas paksas, daniela aiuto, piernicola pedicini, david coburn, on behalf of the europe of freedom and direct democracy group (o—000141/2016 – b8-1814/2016), and– the oral question to the commission on the situation in italy after the earthquakes by curzio maltese, eleonora forenza, barbara spinelli, on behalf of the confederal group of the european united left – nordic green left (o—000146/2016 – b8—1817/2016) (2016/2988(rsp)).
in writing. – the rules regarding commissioners’ declarations of interests are woefully vague. so much so that it is almost completely at the subject’s discretion, what financial details are put forward for consideration. commissioners decide, completely on their own, what financial interests or activities might be ‘likely to constitute a conflict of interest’ and there is no regular reporting when these interests are updated. this report, which i will be supporting is a move in the right direction however it must be followed up by the european commission. i will further be supporting an amendment which will extend commissioners’ post-office employment restrictions to three years.
mr president, on a point of order, you distributed the catch—the—eye on the basis of the groups in parliament. would it not be more logical to base it on the numerical strength of the groups? for instance, my group is five or six times larger numerically than other groups and, under the d’hondt system which is often used in this parliament, we should be given some consideration for extra speaking time under that system. that is something you may wish to answer now or reflect upon so that there will be greater equality under the d’hondt system in catch—the—eye.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this file, which sought to correct the union customs code for member states to be able to do their job in checking the goods that enter the eu. it was a correction of flawed drafting; therefore, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 952/2013 laying down the union customs code, as regards goods that have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by sea or air.
in writing. ‒ i supported this resolution. as regards goods that have temporarily left the customs territory of the european union by sea or air, there is no clear legal basis for requiring the presentation of the goods that are unloaded or transhipped at the point where the goods re-enter the customs territory of the european union after having temporarily left it. in absence of a clear legal basis to require presentation of these goods to the customs authorities, it is more difficult for customs authorities to ensure the supervision of those goods. to recall, article 136 of regulation (eu) no 952/2013 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the union customs code (ucc) excludes the application of certain provisions of that regulation to goods that have temporarily left the customs territory of the european union while moving between two eu ports or airports without stopping outside the european union. therefore, i believe it is necessary to close this gap and to ensure equal treatment of goods coming in and out of the european union.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that allows the effective supervision of goods.
in writing. – as regards goods that have temporarily left the customs territory of the union by air or sea, this file sought to correct the customs code as it was necessary for it to be done in order for member states to be able to do their job in checking the goods that enter the eu. it was a correction of flawed drafting. therefore, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i was shadow rapporteur for this report which extends the deadline for implementation of the regulation requiring providers of packaged retail insurance investment products (priips) to give customers a key information document (kid). priips are the products usually offered by banks to everyday customers when they want to make an investment – e.g. buying a house. the commission’s regulation sets the terms on which the priips industry is required to provide investors with a kid, a mandatory, standardised disclosure document that outlines potential risk, costs and future performance scenarios. this report postpones the roll-out of the kid by one year while the commission revises the regulatory technical standards (rts). i want the kid requirements to be implemented as soon as possible, but the entry into force of the regulation in the absence of the rts would be impractical. there has not been sufficient justification for delaying the implementation of the kid by a full year. i also have concerns that the commission has indicated its revision of the rts will address some of the demands of the industry lobbies instead of sticking to the exact proposals for revision adopted by parliament in the september plenary. therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) no 1286/2014 of the european parliament and of the council on key information documents for packaged retail and insurance-based investment products as regards the date of its application.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation amendment. parliament objected to the delegated regulation adopted by the commission on 30 june 2016 and called, together with a large majority of member states, for a deferral of the date of application of regulation no 1286/2014 for twelve months to give additional time for those concerned to adhere to the new requirements. in the light of the exceptional circumstances, it is appropriate and justified for this regulation to be amended accordingly.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. – i abstained on this vote, which extends the deadline for implementation of the regulation requiring the providers of packaged retail insurance investment products (priips) to give customers a key information document (kid). priips are the products usually offered by banks to everyday customers when they want to make an investment – e.g. buying a house. the commission’s regulation sets the terms on which the priips industry is required to provide investors with a kid, a mandatory, standardised disclosure document that outlines potential risk, costs and future performance scenarios. this report postpones the roll-out of the kid by one year while the commission revises the regulatory technical standards (rts). i want the kid requirements to be implemented as soon as possible, but the entry into force of the regulation in the absence of the rts would be impractical. there has not been sufficient justification for delaying the implementation of the kid by a full year. i also have concerns that the commission has indicated its revision of the rts will address some of the demands of the industry lobbies instead of sticking to the exact proposals for revision adopted by parliament in the september plenary.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will see citizens from kiribati being able to travel visa-free in certain eu countries for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. this visa waiver applies for all persons travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for carrying out a paid activity. as ireland is not a member of the schengen area, this does not apply to it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of kiribati on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ i support this motion, as it deepens the growing relationship between the european union and kiribati. additionally, this agreement is a way of stepping up economic and cultural relations and intensifying political dialogue on various issues, including human rights and fundamental freedoms. the visa waiver agreement could have positive effects by simplifying travel for businesspeople, facilitating investment and boosting tourism. accordingly, the agreement is a positive sign of support for the country, allowing us to pursue a balanced, regular and in-depth political dialogue on issues which remain priorities for the eu.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the visa facilitation agreement between the eu and kiribati.
in writing. – i supported this file as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions providing the state in question possesses a solid human rights record.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will enable citizens from the solomon islands to travel visa-free in certain eu countries for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all persons travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for carrying out a paid activity. as ireland is not a member of the schengen area, this does not apply to it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the solomon islands on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ the eu-solomon islands agreement provides for visa-free travel for citizens of the european union and citizens of the solomon islands when travelling to the territory of the other contracting party for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the european union’s political dialogue with the solomon islands focuses on protecting its vulnerable environment, especially in relation to climate change, on the one hand and on defending human rights and gender issues on the other. the visa waiver agreement represents a significant step towards more regular and enhanced political dialogues. accordingly i have voted in favour of the motion.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the visa facilitation agreement between the eu and the solomon islands.
in writing. – i supported this file as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions providing the state in question possesses a solid human rights record.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will enable citizens from micronesia to travel visa-free in certain eu countries for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180-day period. the visa waiver applies to all persons travelling for any purpose other than carrying out a paid activity. as ireland is not a member of the schengen area, this does not apply to it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the federated states of micronesia on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ i was happy to support this motion. while european union trade relations with the federated states of micronesia are currently very limited, they have potential for development. the european union is currently negotiating a comprehensive economic partnership agreement with fourteen pacific countries, including the federated states of micronesia and i believe that this agreement would help strengthen the relationship between the two parties.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which concludes the visa facilitation agreement between the eu and micronesia.
in writing. – i supported this file as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions providing the state in question possesses a solid human rights record.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will see citizens from tuvalu being able to travel visa-free in certain eu countries for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180 day period. this visa waiver applies for all persons travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for carrying out a paid activity. as ireland is not a member of the schengen area, this does not apply to it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and tuvalu on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ tuvalu’s economy is primarily based on services (more than 60% of gdp), including internet services, with the sale of licences to use the .tv domain name constituting a major source of government revenue. agriculture and fishing account for more than 20% of gdp. tourism is relatively limited. tuvalu also remains dependent on international development assistance, and there are still major economic disparities between the islands in the archipelago. i believe that that this agreement would help deepen the relationship between the eu and tuvalu and so i have voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on conclusion of the visa facilitation agreement between the eu and tuvalu.
in writing. – i supported this file as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions providing the state in question possesses a solid human rights record.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which will see citizens from the marshall islands being able to travel visa-free in certain eu countries for a maximum period of 90 days in any 180 day period. this visa waiver applies for all persons travelling for all kinds of purposes, except for carrying out a paid activity. as ireland is not a member of the schengen area, this does not apply to it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of the marshall islands on the short-stay visa waiver.
in writing. ‒ the marshall islands is a stable presidential democracy in free association with the u.s. the union’s political dialogue with the marshall islands focuses on protecting its vulnerable environment, especially in relation to climate change on the one hand and on defending human rights and gender issues on the other hand. in this context, the agreement represents a significant step towards more regular and enhanced political dialogue. therefore, i believe that this agreement would be beneficial to all parties involved.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the conclusion of the visa facilitation agreement between the eu and the marshall islands.
in writing. – i supported this file as we support the relaxation of certain travel restrictions providing the state in question possesses a solid human rights record.
this is an extremely important fund, and in the light of the disastrous flooding which plagued central europe this summer, and as a concern which irish people know only too well, i supported this report as an instrument which would enable the eu to respond to major natural disasters more effectively, and indeed efficiently. such a development thus demonstrates the innate sense of solidarity which will continue to define our relationship with both current and accession states of the european union and show citizens that we do care about them, and that when they are in dire need the european union is prepared to do its very best to help them. this is what the solidarity fund is all about, and in my constituency we have benefited from it on a number of occasions. we may need to benefit from it again – hopefully not, but i think we probably will because of the nature of the various climatic disasters which are occurring.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which assessed the successes and failures of the most recent changes to the european union’s solidarity fund. while the 2014 reforms did go a long way towards simplifying procedures for disaster stricken areas, there were some areas where it could go further. during the bad flooding last winter in ireland, i consistently argued that applications should be possible jointly by regions divided by a border and to classify regions in terms of the nuts iii category. i am glad that an amendment to this aim was included in the final text as well as proposed changes regarding advanced payments and lowering the threshold for applications by peripheral areas with low socio-economic conditions.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the european union solidarity fund: an assessment.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own initiative report. following the tragic flooding of 2002, the european union introduced the european union solidarity fund (eusf) as an immediate demonstration of the union’s solidarity with countries affected by major natural disasters. it was established for both member states and accession countries. the eusf may come to the aid of member states if total direct damages caused by a natural disaster exceed eur 3 billion or 0.6% of the country’s gross national income (gni). there are also provisions to respond to smaller regional disasters (1.5% of the region’s gdp or 1% for outermost regions). indeed, ireland applied to the eusf under this measure. in october 2015, the european commission presented its report on the use of the eusf for 2014 which focuses on the eusf’s special circumstances in 2014. following this report, the regional development committee decided to produce this own-initiative report to examine how well this solidarity instrument works and calls on the member states to optimise the use of existing eu funding.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour, since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that suggests some areas of future possible reform to the eu solidarity fund.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report which assessed the successes and failures of the most recent changes to the european union’s solidarity fund. while the 2014 reforms did go a long way towards simplifying procedures for disaster stricken areas, there were some areas where it could go further. during the bad flooding last winter in ireland, i consistently argued that applications should be possible jointly by regions divided by a border and to classify regions in terms of the nuts iii category. i am glad that an amendment to this aim was included in the final text as well as proposed changes regarding advanced payments and lowering the threshold for applications by peripheral areas with low socio-economic conditions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a motion to have this file referred to the european court of justice to assess compatibility with existing eu data protection legislation. however, as the majority of meps did not support this referral, i voted against the report as a whole. the file itself provides for some additional protections on the protection of personal data but by no means goes far enough. it differentiates between eu and non-eu citizens, it would also mean that it would become more difficult to challenge the legality of data exchange in court. it may contradict existing eu data protection legislation. it doesn’t cover the protection of information exchanged between national security agencies or private entities either. for those reasons i voted in favour of referral but against the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties on the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection, and prosecution of criminal offences.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of seeking an opinion from the european court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the proposed agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection, and prosecution of criminal offences. there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement is compatible with the provisions of the treaties (article 16 of the tfeu) and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (articles 7, 8 and 52(1) as regards the right of individuals to protection of personal data and article 47 as regards the availability of an effective judicial remedy) therefore in my opinion, we need an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility of the proposed agreement with the treaties.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of a motion to have this file referred to the european court of justice to assess compatibility with existing eu data protection legislation. however, as the majority of meps did not support this referral, i voted against the report as a whole. the file itself provides for some additional protections on the protection of personal data but by no means goes far enough. it differentiates between eu and non-eu citizens, it would also mean that it would become more difficult to challenge the legality of data exchange in court. it may contradict existing eu data protection legislation. it doesn’t cover the protection of information exchanged between national security agencies or private entities either. for those reasons i voted in favour of referral but against the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the protection of personal information relating to the prevention, investigation, detection, and prosecution of criminal offences
in writing. ‒ i abstained from voting on this ‘umbrella agreement’. alde tabled a resolution pursuant to rule 108(6), referring the agreement to the european court of justice for an opinion on the eu-canada pnr agreement before launching the consent procedure as it would relate to some similar provisions (in particular in relation to the ‘adequacy effect’). however this referral was not adopted, so i abstained on this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objection.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that covers the protection of personal information between the police and criminal justice authorities of the eu and the us.
in writing. – on albrecht i voted against the report. i supported the referral of the file to the european court of justice to assess compatibility with existing eu data protection legislation. the file itself provides for some additional protections but by no means goes far enough. it differentiates between eu and non-eu citizens, it would also mean that it would become more difficult to challenge the legality of data exchange in court. it may contradict existing eu data protection legislation. it doesn’t cover the protection of information exchanged between national security agencies or private entities either. for those reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report as i believe it will disadvantage ghana. the report was on establishing a transitional trade deal between the eu and ghana while the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement negotiations are still underway. the trade deal voted on is an economic partnership agreement. the eu has been using these epas with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries in order to force the liberalisation of their economies without providing any new benefit to them. the acp countries already have access to the eu market but in recent years the epa deals struck by europe open access to the poorer countries to the eu without factoring in the massive inequality between the partners. this agreement will be detrimental to the majority of people of ghana and it does not contain a sustainable development chapter.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the stepping stone economic partnership agreement between ghana, of the one part, and the european community and its member states, of the other part.
in writing. ‒ with the signature of the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement (epa) taking additional time, in august 2016 ghana (and subsequently côte d’ivoire) has decided to proceed with ratification of its stepping stone economic partnership agreement with the european union. i voted in favour of this interim agreement, which will open doors to its provisional application. although neither ghana nor the eu expected that the iepa would need to be resuscitated, a slow pace of the final steps towards a regional epa forced us do it. the iepa will allow ghanaian exporters to preserve the duty-free preferences on the european market as ghana moves up and consolidates its status as a middle-income country. furthermore, if the regional epa comes into place without excessive delays, any discrepancies in the iepa tariff liberalisation schedules and tariff lines would be solved without a need for additional adaptation to the regional processes.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that is an interim agreement between the eu and ghana.
in writing. – i voted against this report as i believe it will disadvantage ghana. the report was on establishing a transitional trade deal between the eu and ghana while the eu-west africa economic partnership agreement negotiations are still underway. the trade deal voted on is an economic partnership agreement. the eu has been using these epas with african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries in order to force the liberalisation of their economies without providing any new benefit to them. the acp countries already have access to the eu market but in recent years the epa deals struck by europe open access to the poorer countries to the eu without factoring in the massive inequality between the partners. this agreement will be detrimental to the majority of people of ghana and it does not contain a sustainable development chapter.
in writing. ‒ contingency margins were one of the few new measures that were introduced in the multi-financial framework from 2014-20, it is essentially a last resort instrument, or to simplify; a ‘reserve fund’, to use in the event of unforeseen circumstances. the commission must make the proposal in light of such events and the council must adopt it. while i fully support the increase in expenditure related to the ongoing humanitarian crisis with thousands of people fleeing conflicts in syria and iraq, i do not support neither the proposed increase in expenditure for security measures, nor the expenses related to the eu-turkey declaration on refugees. therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising the contingency margin for 2016 for an amount of eur 240 million so as to complement the commitment appropriations related to expenditure in ‘security and citizenship’ in the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ while i fully support the increase in expenditure related to the ongoing humanitarian crisis with thousands of people fleeing conflicts in syria and iraq, i do not support either the proposed increase in expenditure for security measures, or the expenses related to the eu-turkey declaration on refugees. the increased security measures and the eu-turkey declaration aim to bolster ‘fortress europe’ thereby preventing refugees from exercising their right to seek asylum as laid down in article 18 of the charter of human rights. therefore, i voted abstention
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: update of appropriations to reflect the latest developments on migration and security issues, reduction of payment and commitment appropriations as a result of the global transfer, extension of efsi, modification of the staff establishment plan of frontex and update of revenue appropriations.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. – this file sought increased appropriations for security and citizenship, of which we are of the opinion, given the past performance of the eu in this regard, that the money will be spent furthering the eu’s imperial adventures and also into frontex which is not fit for purpose. thereafter, the file ties itself somewhat to migration but the reality is that the increased appropriations will be used in a nefarious way for security purposes, as well as the file reinforcing own resources to which we are opposed. therefore, i had to abstain.
in writing. ‒ five countries, the largest net contributors and recipients of rebates, are looking to receive an exemption from paying vat towards the own resources for three years. while sinn féin has a nuanced position against own resources, i could not support this position. therefore, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016: implementation of the own resources decision no 2014/335/eu further to the closing of the ratification process and its entry into force on 1 october 2016.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this draft amending budget no 5/2016 that results from the completion of the ratification process and the entry into force of decision no 2014/335/eu, euratom, which contains limited changes such as the reduction of the collection costs of traditional own resources, a new reduced rate of call of the vat-based resource for some member states, and gross reductions in gni-based contributions for some member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. – five countries, the largest net contributors and recipients of rebates, are looking to receive an exemption from paying vat towards the own resources for three years. while we have a nuanced position against own resources, we could not support this position. therefore, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ this file sought for an increase in the social fund in instances where a natural disaster has taken place and has adversely affected the economy. given that natural disasters can adversely affect the economies of any member state, it is important that the eu shows solidarity to those people affected and helps them to stabilise in the aftermath of tragic circumstances. therefore, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to assist the region of lower bavaria affected by flooding in 2016.
in writing. – this file was to mobilise european solidarity fund to germany after the catastrophic flooding in may and june 2016. therefore, i supported sending solidarity funding to the affected people of the affected areas.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2016 of the european union for the financial year 2016 accompanying the proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide assistance to germany.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the commission’s proposal to mobilise the european union solidarity fund (eusf) to grant financial assistance relating to a disaster in germany (floods affecting lower bavaria, especially the district of rottal-inn) that occurred in may and june 2016. the series of extremely intense, short-lived cases of flooding/flash floods caused destruction of public and private infrastructure, of private homes, and in agriculture. seven people lost their lives and more than 47 000 people in lower bavaria were affected, with over 2 000 unable to return to their houses two months after the floods. the town of simbach am inn was almost entirely destroyed and was left with no municipal water supply for three weeks. significant damage to businesses and agriculture was also reported, as well as heavy damage to the basic infrastructure, water supply, sewage services and electricity network. in their application, received by the commission on 19 august 2016, the german authorities estimated total direct damage caused by the disaster at eur 1 259.005 million.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report to assist the region of lower bavaria affected by flooding in 2016.
in writing. – this file sought for an increase in the social fund in instances where a natural disaster has taken place and has adversely affected the economy. given that natural disasters can adversely affect the economies of any member state, it is important that the eu shows solidarity to those people affected and helps them to stabilise in the aftermath of tragic circumstances. therefore, i supported it.
in writing. ‒ while i fully support the increase in expenditure related to the ongoing humanitarian crisis with thousands of people fleeing conflicts in syria and iraq, i do not support either the proposed increase in expenditure for security measures, or the expenses related to the eu-turkey declaration on refugees. the increased security measures and the eu-turkey declaration aim to bolster ‘fortress europe’ thereby preventing refugees from exercising their right to seek asylum as laid down in article 18 of the charter of human rights. therefore, i voted abstention.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the contingency margin in 2017
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ the file sought for flexibility instruments to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure. however, it sought to use this flexibility to increase security spending under the guise of helping with migration and the refugee crisis. while i fully support the increase in expenditure related to the ongoing humanitarian crisis with thousands of people fleeing conflicts in syria and iraq, i do not support either the proposed increase in expenditure for security measures, or the expenses related to the eu-turkey declaration on refugees. the increased security measures and the eu-turkey declaration aim to bolster ‘fortress europe’ thereby preventing refugees from excising their right to seek asylum as laid down in article 18 of the charter of human rights. therefore, i voted abstention.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the flexibility instrument to finance immediate budgetary measures to address the on-going migration, refugee and security crisis.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that expresses serious concerns over the payment surplus of eur 7 284.3 million, which is the result of major delays in the implementation of eu programmes under shared management. this paves the way for a significant accumulation of payment requests towards the end of the current mff. it also reiterates the commission’s conclusion that, according to the present forecasts, updated payment needs until 2020 can only be accommodated with the current ceilings if the global margin for payments is fully used and if payments for special instruments are counted over and above the ceilings. it therefore asks the commission for a definitive and unequivocal settlement of the latter issue as part of the mff revision.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. – the file sought for flexibility instruments to allow the financing of clearly identified expenditure. however, it sought to use this flexibility to increase security spending under the guise of helping with migration and the refugee crisis. while i fully support the increase in expenditure related to the ongoing humanitarian crisis with thousands of people fleeing conflicts in syria and iraq, i do not support either the proposed increase in expenditure for security measures, or the expenses related to the eu-turkey declaration on refugees. the increased security measures and the eu-turkey declaration aim to bolster ‘fortress europe’ thereby preventing refugees from excising their right to seek asylum as laid down in article 18 of the charter of human rights. therefore, i voted abstention.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund to provide for the payment of advances in the general budget of the union for 2017.
in writing. ‒ i supported this motion. in total, the european union solidarity fund has raised more than eur 3.8 billion in connection with more than 70 disasters within 24 beneficiary states and accession countries, and has been used in response to a wide range of natural phenomena, such as earthquakes, flooding, forest fires, storms and, more recently, drought. i think it is important to develop synergies between the various union funds and policies with a view to preventing the impact of natural disasters and, in cases where the eusf is activated, to guaranteeing the consolidation and long-term sustainable development of reconstruction projects. this eusf is vital in showing the eu’s commitment to helping our fellow humans, not only worldwide but also in the member states.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. – this file sought for the possibility of advanced payments from the eu solidarity fund of up to eur 50 000 000 to be made available for payments in advance, but the overall maximum amount of the fund, eur 500 000 000 could not be exceeded. as it only sought advance payments and no increase in funds i supported it.
in writing. ‒ for this file, i voted against. despite the extra financing for the eu youth unemployment initiative, this remains the most draconian budget in decades and this is reflected on the basis on the volume of cuts to funding to a number of progressive and social programmes that the council have pushed through. despite the all efforts and requests from the european parliament, member states within the council, in particular from the right-wing governments of the wealthier member states, were lacking in solidarity towards the rest, and this was apparently a recurring feature of the negotiations. the hallmark of this budget is that it indicates that austerity politics and policies driven by the council will continue for the foreseeable future. fundamentally there will also be cuts to tackling climate change, cuts to the european institute for gender equality, social and cohesion funding which was forecast to be a 23.5 % reduction compared to 2016. all this whilst trust funds for turkey, africa, etc. are to be reinforced.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the joint text on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 approved by the conciliation committee under the budgetary procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this text that approves the joint text on budgetary procedure as agreed by the conciliation committee. it consists of the unmodified budget in comparison to the draft budget or the council’s position, the summary figures by financial framework headings, line-by-line figures on all budget items, and a consolidated document showing the figures and final text of all lines modified during the conciliation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is the agreement reached in conciliation with the council on the 2017 budget.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution accompanying an oral question. the resolution urges the commission to take all the necessary measures to provide support and help to the italian national and regional authorities involved in relief efforts following the recent earthquakes by simplifying procedures and shortening the time for approval and disbursement of financing from the european solidarity fund.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on the situation in italy after the earthquakes.
in writing. ‒ after the devastating earthquake that hit central italy on 24 august 2016, i feel that it is necessary to support the above motion. i believe that the reconstruction and any anti-seismic investments should be excluded from the calculation of national deficits in the framework of the stability and growth pact in order to take into account the extent of the devastation.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour, since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in solidarity with the people affected by the recent earthquakes in italy.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which aims to amend the procedures on commissioners’ declarations of interests which will necessitate a reform of the commissioners’ code of conduct. proposals include: an obligation to disclose all financial interests and not just those ‘likely to constitute a conflict of interest’; details of contractual relations, divestment requirements; disclosure of donations to any ngos; regular reporting on the implementation of this code including any changes to declarations; rules in the case that commissioners are ‘relocated’; and time frames for submission of declarations. i also co-signed and voted in favour of the one amendment to this report, which called to extend commissioners’ post-office employment restrictions to a period of at least three years without making any changes to the transitional rules. i am happy that this amendment was passed so that unethical appointments, such as that of former president of the commission josé manuel barroso to goldman sachs, do not happen in the future without a proper cooling off period.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on commissioners’ declarations of interests – guidelines.
in writing. ‒ i support the rapporteur in his endeavour to raise accountability and transparency as regards commissioners’ activities and potential conflicts of interests. to regain the trust of european citizens, notably in the eu institutions, it is essential to increase transparency and accountability in particular of public figures such as commissioners. it is not acceptable if commissioners are hiding personal or family members’ interests in taking specific decisions at eu executive level. therefore, a thorough analysis on the basis of sufficient data to be requested from the commissioner in question need to be undertaken on a case-by-case basis, not only before a commissioner takes up his duties but also during and to a certain extent also after his mandate.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. – i voted in favour of the one amendment to this report, which called to extend commissioners’ post-office employment restrictions to a period of at least three years without making any changes to the transitional rules. i am happy that this amendment was passed so that unethical appointments, such as that of former president of the commission josé manuel barroso to goldman sachs, do not happen in the future without a proper cooling-off period.
the president, once again, voted for my group on this report and i actually voted for my colleague and i voted against it all today. this is an important topic and, in particular, it should be kept in mind as to what the future of the group will be, especially as regards financial matters. after the economic collapse, there was a lot of talk about what was happening and they started to talk about the housing crisis, especially the housing crisis and the financial crisis. but of course that is unchanged now and is good because there was a lot of involvement in the hoibrithe usually in the decisions that were made, and that was because of the laws and the economic situation. but now things are getting better and that means the laws are getting better.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. it seeks to harmonise rules for liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations with a view to preventing further accidents with cross border implications while making sure that those liable can be held financially and legally accountable to persons and states, particularly if the damage fishing, tourism or wildlife. it introduces the idea of a horizontal european framework for collective redress for sectors hardest hit by oil and gas spills such as fisheries and coastal tourist sectors. although the idea of protecting both the environment by raising security standards and the idea of compensating inhabitants and workers of hard-hit areas is one i completely agree on, the usurpation of powers from member states to the eu in this creates a subsidiarity issue. in spite of this, it also sought the harmonisation of national legislation and areas of competence for member states, therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on liability, compensation and financial security for offshore oil and gas operations.
in writing. ‒ given that offshore oil and gas operations are progressively taking place in increasingly extreme environments and could potentially have major and devastating consequences for the environment and economy of the sea and coastal areas, i believe that it is necessary that the providers of these operations be liable for any damage that they may cause. therefore i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour, since i have no objections.
in writing. – this file seeks to harmonise on rules for liability, compensation and financial security with a view to preventing further accidents with cross-border implications while making sure that those liable can be held financially and legally accountable to persons and states, particularly if they damage fishing, tourism or wildlife. it introduces the idea of a horizontal european framework for collective redress for sectors hardest hit by oil and gas spills such as fisheries and coastal tourist sectors. although the idea of protecting both the environment by raising security standards and the idea of compensating inhabitants and workers of hard-hit areas is one i completely agree on, the usurpation of powers from member states to the eu in this creates a subsidiarity issue. in spite of this, it also sought the harmonisation of national legislation and areas of competence for member states, therefore i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this resolution. there were some very good aspects in the report on the protection and promotion of human rights, improving the legitimacy of elections, and improving the humanitarian situation in the drc. however the resolution also included calls endorsing and promoting the cotonou agreement. the cotonou agreement includes the promotion of economic partnership agreements between the eu and african, caribbean and pacific states. it forces the acp countries to open their economies to the eu without receiving new benefits in return, to the detriment of the majority of the population.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on the situation in the democratic republic of the congo.
in writing. ‒ i am concerned about the reports on the worsening situation of human rights and freedom of expression, assembly and demonstration in the country in the run-up to elections, including the use of excessive force against peaceful demonstrators, journalists, political leaders and others in the democratic republic of the congo. the extent of the loss of lives during the demonstrations over the last few weeks is particularly concerning. i support the call for transparent, credible and inclusive elections as soon as possible and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution, which expresses parliament’s concern for the humanitarian situation in the democratic republic of the congo.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution. the oral question focused on whether the commission is planning a strong european policy towards africa, namely through the establishment of a europe-africa partnership for the electrification of the continent as well as on the state of progress and the main challenges encountered in the implementation of programmed development assistance in the energy area. it also focuses on the outlook for the commission’s continued implementation and on the proportion of the funds engaged that goes to local renewable energy projects.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on access to energy in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i believe that access to energy accelerates development and that energy governance, while also difficult to implement, is essential. i am of the opinion that the eu and its member states should provide support and technical assistance in the implementation of the action plan of the africa clean energy corridor initiative, which seeks to meet half of total electricity demand from clean, indigenous, cost-effective renewable resources by 2030, thereby reducing carbon dioxide emissions. further subsidies for fossil fuels should be phased out and these freed-up funds should be allocated to efficient social policies and to actions for eradicating energy poverty in developing countries.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that highlights the important role that access to energy plays in accelerating development.
i supported this motion for a resolution in light of its evaluation of the extent of energy poverty prevalent in developing countries. the provision of access to electricity and energy sources for developing countries should be a priority for our political agenda. thus, i support the commission’s energising development initiative as a means to advance progress in this field, and as one who had the privilege of representing parliament in marrakesh, and indeed in paris last year, it was interesting to meet representatives from various third countries. one thing that was very notable is that the energy demands in africa will treble over the next number of years, and in asia it will double. so having targets to reduce emissions, and rightly so, means an awful lot of support will have to be given to them, especially through the climate fund of eur 100 billion plus, and this will help towards giving them their energy requirements, but also reduce emissions.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on a european payment order which will make it easier to claim payments due across borders. the report on the european payment order basically describes the results of an impact assessment done by the commission and suggests some improvements. the epo is an optional procedure, complementing (not replacing) similar national procedures.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the application of the european order for payment procedure
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the european order for payment procedure. this procedure was created to enable the rapid, facilitated and inexpensive recovery of sums arising from debts that are certain, of a fixed amount and due, and uncontested by the defendant. although the operation of this procedure seems largely satisfactory according to statistics, the procedure is working greatly below its full potential, as it is mainly used in member states whose legislation includes a similar national procedure. the resolution stressed that late payments are a key cause of insolvency, which threatens the survival of businesses – and in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises. this, particularly, is of importance to me and therefore i voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. ‒ i have voted in favour since i have no objections.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report on a european payment order which will make it easier to claim payments due across borders. the report on the european payment order basically describes the results of an impact assessment done by the commission and suggests some improvements. the epo is an optional procedure, complementing (not replacing) similar national procedures.
mr president, thank you to all the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs who have been involved in getting us to this position, and to the commissioner too for her input. we are at a point now where the fourth railway package is to be implemented, and i welcome that because it will be good for consumers. that is why we are all here ultimately: to ensure that services provided are safe, that there is a good service, punctuality, cost and a choice of routes. i am certain that the competition that will be introduced by the opening up of the market will ensure that we do have a more dynamic rail system. much has been said about living in a free and open market with no checks and balances in place for the private sector, and i do not believe that is the case. the strong performance criteria are going to be implemented and supervision measures – which are absolutely necessary – are going to be put in place. ireland, along with a number of small countries, has a temporary exemption in this because the market share in ireland is less than 0.5%, and it was perceived that there would not be any interest in opening up that market. however, performance criteria will be put in place, supervised by the national transport authority, and i would like to point out that the national transport authority is already doing that through its existing direct award contract, and that their publication of quarterly performance already covers similar indicators. we look forward to their supervision again in this area as we move forward implementing the fourth railway package.
uachtaráin, the place where the phrótacal donostia le bheith ann ar an satharn was born. the new tools are among the organisations in civil society whose aim is to give the chainteoirí teangacha neamhfhorleathana. is buncheist beo is an teanga san eoraip, mar atá sa bhaile. it is a language in europe. there is a lot of modhanna leithcheala to do do, agus níl aon amhras ach go bhfuil cearta teanga daoine a sárú i dtaca le gach teanga réigiúnach, dhúchasach nó mhionlaigh san eoraip. there is a lot of modhanna leithcheala to do, agus níl aon amhras ach go bhfuil cearta teanga daoine a sárú i dtaca le gach teanga réigiúnach, dhúchasach nó mhionlaigh san eoraip. there is a lot of modhanna leithcheala to do, agus níl aon amhras ach go bhfuil cearta teanga daoine a sárú i dtaca le gach teanga réigiúnach, dhúchasach nó mhionlaigh san eoraip. in éirinn, for example, there are rialtas féin mar aon le rialtas na breataine ag déanamh neamhaird de chothromaíocht na gaeilge or thuaidh de dheasca a neamhthoilteanas comhaontú chill rìmhinn a chur i ngníomh agus acht na gaeilge a reáchtáil. in ireland, for example, there are rialtas féin mar aon le rialtas na breataine ag déanamh neamhaird de chothromaíocht na gaeilge or thuaidh de dheasca a neamhthoilteanas comhaontú chill rìmhinn a chur i ngníomh agus acht na gaeilge a reáchtáil. in ireland, for example, there are rialtas féin mar aon le rialtas na breataine ag déanamh neamhaird de chothromaíocht na gaeilge or thuaidh de dheasca a neamhthoilteanas comhaontú chill rìmhinn a chur i ngníomh agus acht na gaeilge a reáchtáil. now, it's important to be friendly, to be honest, to be strong in your human rights and in your language rights. language is important, not just to give it identity, but to give it meaning, to give it a science, to give it a culture. when they come to our right tongue, they have no other right, they have no other right, they will not stop being with us; they will surely come to our right tongue, they will go to our right tongue.
madam president, at this time of the year many traffic accidents will be occurring and national authorities are making a concerted effort to reduce the number of accidents on our roads. significant progress has been made at eu level in tackling road deaths in recent years; we seem to have had a regression in those figures. we need to have further innovative measures to address this fact: it is notable, when you look at the number of serious injuries, that the reduction in those is lagging behind road deaths. we are not being as successful in that area: if you look since 2010, the number of people seriously injured in the eu was reduced by just 1.6% compared to an 18% decrease in the number of road deaths. so there has been a lot done in reducing our road deaths but still more needs to be done. we need now to look at serious road injuries and ascertain why we are not making progress in that area. the commission needs to introduce a target for the reduction of serious road injuries, and to bring forward measures in the road package next year to ensure that meaningful data are collected as to why we have this level of serious road injuries and to ensure that we are as effective in this area of serious injuries on our roads as we have been in road deaths.
madam president, having had the privilege of representing parliament in paris and in marrakech at the two cops, i welcome the introductory remarks by the commissioners and look forward to working with them as we move towards our ambition of a low-carbon economy. i want to use my time to focus on the proposal on the energy performance of buildings, which is an area which i have a keen interest in and in which i see significant potential. big improvements are needed in numerous buildings, 75% of which are currently considered to be inefficient. buildings account for 40% of final energy consumption in europe. an enormous amount of this is wasted due to buildings not performing efficiently. our work in the coming months needs to ensure that we set the right framework to make investment into energy-efficient projects in buildings happen; i look forward to that challenge. i welcome the mandatory minimum requirements for renewable energy in new buildings, and in buildings undergoing major renovations. this, along with a more ambitious energy efficient target of 30%, will help to ensure real improvements in terms of energy use in our buildings. efficient homes mean less energy consumption, lower bills and a lower carbon footprint. it is a true no-brainer, and i look forward to work in the proposal in the coming months. i feel that the key challenge in making the required improvements is mobilising the investment to bring about the required changes. the new initiative to unlock eur 10 billion in public and private funding for energy efficiency and renewable energy in buildings, as announced in this package, is welcome and will be a crucial part of this. i also welcome the eur 400 million under the eib fc fund for france, that could be emulated elsewhere.
in writing. – i abstained on this report. whilst these frameworks for participation in eu programmes allow third countries to access eu funds, remove travel or visa restrictions and promote cultural awareness, they are for the most part neoliberal financial arrangements aimed at trade liberalisation. furthermore, algeria’s human rights record is poor. for these reasons, i abstained.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on this report. the good elements of the report include allowing algeria to access eu programmes, access funding, remove travel and visa restrictions and promote cultural awareness. however the main part of the agreement is about promoting neo-liberal financial arrangements aimed at trade liberalisation. this, on top of the fact that algeria currently has a poor human rights record, meant that i abstained on the final vote.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the eu-algeria framework agreement on the general principles for the participation of algeria in union programmes.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which gives consent to the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement and a framework agreement between the eu and algeria.
mr president, there is a multiple award-winning documentary by richard o’donnell called atlantic that has been described as a wake-up call, as chilling as a bucket of ice-cold sea water over the head. filmed through the eyes of small fishing communities in three countries, ireland, norway and canada, it addresses exactly this issue, deep-sea stocks and fishing in international waters. every member of this house should make it their business to learn of the situation with regard to irish fishing waters from which much of that stock has been taken. would the french government gift 75% of its wine production to the eu? would the netherlands gift 75% of its agricultural production? i doubt it. in 1973, when ireland joined the eu, that is exactly what the irish government did. it gifted 75% of our stocks to the eu. and here is the rub. ireland has never been credited for this value, estimated by dr karen devine to be worth in excess of 200 billion from 1973 to 2012. as one of the fishermen said in the film, there is something wrong here. he could have said more. there is something really wrong here and it has got to change: otherwise we have got to get out of this rotten union.
mr president, i welcome this report in light of the specific and crucial regulation and that it clarifies in the sphere of fishing international waters. from an irish perspective, i can appreciate that the advancement of the economic viability of the fishing sector has a profound effect on the livelihoods of fishing communities across the eu. moreover, it is increasingly important that we identify species and ecosystems that are vulnerable to over-exploitation, thus establishing and clarifying a sustainable level of fishing for all member states. regular assessment, reinforcement of current and future sanctions, and promotion of greater transparency do prove vital to safeguarding of deep-sea stocks and regulation of fishing activities in the eu. i also urge colleagues, like my colleague mr flanagan, to look at the film the atlantic, a wonderful production, but i would not draw the same conclusions. i do not think that we should be leaving the european union, but i will let members look at it and then come to their own conclusions because there are very important messages in it.
in writing. – i voted against the proposal to reject the council’s position. i supported this report because the european parliament has secured a commitment to implement sanctions for vessels violating the regulation on deep-sea fishing and a stipulation that no exemptions will be granted to certain rules. there is agreement that there will be no bottom trawling below the depth of 800m. this new measure is intended to protect vulnerable deep-sea marine ecosystems more effectively. this is a positive step as bottom trawlers drag huge, weighted nets along the deep seafloor, devastating ecosystems, including corals and sponges that have flourished for thousands of years. vessels found to be fishing in vulnerable marine ecosystems (vmes) at a depth in excess of 400 metres will have to stop their operations and move. new, stricter transparency rules have also been introduced that include requirements to make information available to the public on european vessels targeting deep-sea species and to report all catches (fish and vulnerable ecosystems).
in writing. ‒ i supported the agreement reached over this file and therefore voted against an efdd amendment to reject the text. my rationale for supporting this file was that the negotiations secured sanctions for vessels violating the regulation on deep-sea fishing and a stipulation that no exemptions would be granted to certain rules. inter-institutional negotiations agreed that there should be no bottom trawling below the depth of 800m, which should ensure protection for vulnerable deep-sea marine ecosystems more effectively. new transparency rules will also be introduced that include requirements to make information available to the public on european vessels targeting deep-sea species and to report all catches. this will result in enabling allowed fishing areas to be adapted.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on north-east atlantic: deep-sea stocks and fishing in international waters. i support establishing specific conditions for fishing for deep-sea stocks in the north-east atlantic and provisions for fishing in international waters of the north-east atlantic. i support banning bottom trawling targeting deep-water species which are mainly slow-growing and at risk of over-exploitation. i rejected the proposal to reject the council position.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this regulation on establishing new rules for fishing in the north-east atlantic. when fish stocks on the continental shelf started declining at the end of the 1980s due to overfishing and unsustainable practices, the fishing industry started targeting deep-sea species. the development of industrial fisheries in the eu over the last four decades led to a critical stock depletion and destruction of marine habitat. the new regulation strengthens the protection of deep-sea habitats by setting stricter conditions on deep-sea fisheries. the cornerstone measure is the ban on bottom trawling fisheries below 800 metres in eu waters, which entails an important precedent worldwide. i was also particularly happy to support a new effort to ensure the collection of scientific data; 20% of vessels will now be required to have a scientific observer on board.
go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin. i voted in favour of this report as my group was pleased to see it: this is a recommendation which mr corbett has made and which i would like to see included in this excellent report. actually, they've done a lot for you, so you should be thankful for them. it is right that we should review the rules we have in this parliament now, and it is of course important that citizens should understand what is going on, that they should understand that they are being treated so harshly and that they can have a fair trial in the european parliament. it's never been important. we've explained to them what's going on, what's going on in the group, what's going on in the world, why we've made a decision to end it. i think it's important to have a report without a report.
in writing. – i voted against this report, which is extremely alarming and represents a major step backwards for democracy in europe. this vote has been described as representing merely technical changes that will improve efficiency in the european parliament. but the truth is these changes will have a dramatic political impact, by undermining democratic oversight, transparency and political pluralism. my top concern is the empowerment in the legislative process of the so-called trilogue. trilogues are an undemocratic and illegitimate means of forming legislation that give undue power to the unelected officials of the commission. this vote not only attempts to legitimise them but also means that once an agreement has been reached in trilogue, meps will no longer be able to amend the proposal in the plenary of parliament. the ability of meps to question the commission, to propose motions for resolutions, and to table amendments to legislative proposals will all be restricted. this will harm both our ability to effectively represent our constituents and to hold the commission accountable. the power of the two major political groups, the conservative christian democrats (epp) and the social democrats (s&d), will be further entrenched by the raising of procedural ‘thresholds’.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which will be a major step backwards in democracy in europe. the new rules of procedure adopted will restrict the rights of individual members and smaller political groups, further centralising parliamentary power in the hands of the ‘grand coalition’, the conservative epp and social democrats. this vote has been described as representing merely technical changes that will improve efficiency in the european parliament. but the truth is these changes will have a dramatic political impact, by undermining democratic oversight, transparency and political pluralism. my top concern is the empowerment in the legislative process of the so-called trilogue, described by a journalist recently as being the place ‘where european democracy goes to die’. trilogues are an undemocratic and illegitimate means of forming legislation that give undue power to the unelected officials of the commission. this vote not only attempts to legitimise them but also means that once an agreement has been reached in trilogue, meps will no longer be able to amend the proposal in the plenary of parliament. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the outcome reached today after a year and a half’s worth of hard work, but critical progress remains blocked by the usual conservative suspects. candidates to the posts of eu commissioners will in the future be much more tightly scrutinised for conflicts of interest, made all the more necessary by recent revolving door scandals. as far as our own house is concerned, we have enhanced the disclosure and updating requirements of meps’ parallel sources of income, banned members from the outrageous practice of engaging in lobbying activities aimed at their own colleagues, and explicitly asked that meps refuse to meet unregistered lobbyists. i and other colleagues, and the staff in our offices, have personally abided by such practices for a long time, and have gone even beyond them in terms of the information we publish. i personally think that most second jobs are outright incompatible with the responsibilities of a parliamentarian and would like to see the legislation laying out our statute revisited to that end. unfortunately, many colleagues held us hostage to what is literally business as usual to some of them, on pain of blocking any progress at all, but we must keep up the pressure.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the general revision of parliament’s rules of procedure. however, i opposed abolishing written declarations as they allow meps to voice issues of concern to their constituents.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that amends the european parliament’s rules of procedure. this revision will make the overall operation of parliament more transparent and counter disruptive parliamentary practices. for example, this new procedure now prohibits any paid lobbyist work for members of parliament, while former members of parliament must register for such activity. it also proposes a strengthening of sanctions that can be imposed on a member of parliament in the event of non-compliance with the rules of conduct.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that updates parliament’s rules of procedure.
mr president, i welcome this evaluation of the status of fundamental rights in the european union. based on the principles of compromise and subsidiarity and identifying the protection of fundamental rights and dignity as a priority, i am pleased to support the rapporteur’s findings. in establishing a more definitive framework in this sphere, we may hope that the vast range of rights which were identified will continue to be advanced. i also greatly appreciate mr nagy’s renewed efforts to recognise the promotion of rights for minorities as a keystone for future policy in this area. i would also like to thank our president, mr schulz, for referring to the fundamental rights of a european and irish citizen in parliament yesterday evening when he called on the egyptian authorities to release ibrahim halawa, who is celebrating his 21st birthday today in an egyptian prison, without trial for four years for an offence he allegedly committed when he was a minor. so hopefully the egyptian authorities will listen more to the irish authorities, to the department of foreign affairs, and to mr schulz, our president.
in writing. ‒ this was a positive report. it includes strong references to whistleblower protection, condemns mass surveillance of the cia, tackles corruption, contains progressive assessments of the refugee crisis and is strong on countering discrimination and protecting gender equality. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union in 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted no because i disagree.
in writing. ‒ i, along with a broad cross-party majority of members in the european parliament, approved this report regarding the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2015. recent developments in some eu member states have had a negative impact on the protection of fundamental rights, in particular for vulnerable groups such as migrants, refugees, children and women. i believe we must act to scrutinise respect for and promotion of fundamental rights across the union. democracy is a necessary condition for the rule of law, it is not sufficient to guarantee it. it is our obligation and our moral duty to guarantee that fundamental rights in the eu are protected.
mr president, i have always been a great admirer of all those who contribute to our creative and cultural treasury which we are so proud of in europe. i was pleased to vote in favour of this comprehensive, articulate and forward—thinking report in the light of the rapporteur’s efforts to consolidate a long-term policy in this area. i have always advocated strongly for the creative potential of small and medium—sized enterprises, and, in reassessing the allocation of funds, for example, we may reinforce the potential which the cultural and creative industries host. facilitating the interrelationship between smes and research, as well as the essential combination of creativity with entrepreneurialism, will prove truly fruitful in this domain. measured investment and expertise in assessment will also provide the keystone for further innovation in this sphere. i think that mr ehler and mr morgano have done a very good job in this whole area and i thank them.
in writing. – i voted against this report. the report calls on the commission to develop a comprehensive, coherent and long-term industrial policy framework for the creative and cultural sector (cultural and creative industries – cci), and to provide funding for ccis, in order to boost their competitiveness and to enable them to fulfil their potential in terms of creating quality jobs and growth. to achieve this goal, the report – while recognising the diverse nature of ccis and, accordingly, of their specific funding and innovation needs – proposes a harmonised definition of ccis on which statistical data should be based. the report proposes the creation of a single eu-wide definition and statistics for the cci. it seems contradictory because on the one hand the report admits european cultural richness and diversity, but on the other hand it proposes the creation of a definition that is necessarily reductive and debatable. the report also calls for the strengthening and completion of the european digital single market which has many negative aspects. despite the positive elements, this report overall seeks to reduce cultural diversity and treat the cultural sector as a commodity.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the proposed harmonisation of policies related to cultural and creative industries (ccis). the report proposes the creation of a single eu-wide definition and statistics for ccis. this is completely contradictory, since on the one hand the report admits european cultural richness and diversity, but on the other proposes the creation of a definition that is necessarily reductive and debatable. the report as a whole views the cultural sector as a commodity rather than accepting its true value. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. ‒ precarious working conditions and insecure forms of income are common practice in the creative industry sector, and that is why our house calls on the commission to draw up an ambitious legislative package for artists and creative workers. sadly, women face the same barriers in these industries as in most others, which means a huge gender pay gap and an even bigger pension gap exist. furthermore, there is a very high proportion of women who work in these industries, and more often than not they are declared as self-employed, facing serious challenges as mothers and working women. cultural and creative work requires the same commitment to fundamental social and labour standards on the part of the commission and the member states as in any other sectors, and this must also apply to negotiating mandates for trade agreements.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on a coherent eu policy for cultural and creative industries.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that highlights how the eu can take a leading role in promoting the important positive impact of the cultural and creative sectors, particularly fostering policies that champion europe’s most unique asset: its culture. all around the world, the cultural and creative sector (ccis) are considered a major and growing part of the global economy. its importance as a generator of jobs and wealth is increasingly recognised, particularly so in the eu. we need a comprehensive industrial strategy at the european level that will take all specific characteristics of cultural and creative industries into account, and will turn challenges like digitalisation and the review of copyright rules into new growth and job opportunities by creating a balanced legal framework. ccis have a key role in reindustrialising europe.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the importance of the cultural and creative industries and looks for ways to boost these sectors in the eu.
mr president, i would first like to thank mariya gabriel, my friend and colleague, for doing a very good job in this report. in line with the ppe group, i voted in favour of it given its crucial consideration of the status of women’s rights in the eastern partnership states. encompassing security, peace, stability and prosperity as a priority, we would hope that this report’s recommendations will redefine the framework surrounding the rights of women. in light of the considerable difference in the status of said rights in these states, we must continue our efforts to champion this area as a great priority. in doing so, we may continue to advance the principles of equality, development and peace as a cornerstone of all current and future policy. i suppose it was appropriate that, while we were discussing this topic and voting on it today, just prior to it we had the privilege of presenting the sakharov prize to two wonderful, inspirational women who have gone through an awful lot, but are still there showing the invincibility of women and the human spirit.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report because of how it highlighted many of the positive and negative aspects of the rights of women in eastern partnership states. it looked at the participation of women in decision-making processes, economic participation of women, combating violence against women, highlighting women’s role in peaceful resolution of conflicts, etc. it also highlighted the difficulties still facing women in these countries and the work that needs to be done in order to counteract this. the report remained quite progressive despite the split votes tabled which took away from some of the more progressive elements of it.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which focuses on the participation of women in decision-making processes, economic participation of women, violence against women, women’s role in peaceful resolution of conflicts and examples of best practices and eu support in the context of the european neighbourhood policy. it considers that women still face significant barriers to participation in eastern partnership states (16% of elected mps on average) and calls for them to take concrete steps to overcome the many barriers facing women in all areas of society including politics, care and education. despite their higher levels of education in all eastern partnership countries, women are significantly and noticeably absent from the structures of power and remain active predominantly in low-paying sectors because of legal and structural barriers. women also suffer from a gender pay gap that can be as wide as 50% in some sectors. for highlighting these concerns, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on rights of women in the eastern partnership states.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this own-initiative report that assesses the situation of women’s rights in the six eastern partnership countries: armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova, ukraine and belarus, which are covered by the european neighbourhood policy (enp). social and economic discrimination and gender stereotypes are still widespread across these countries, preventing greater inclusion of women in the labour market and participation in political decision-making processes. more worryingly, the high levels of violence against women and the lack of access to sexual and reproductive health remains challenging. women’s rights and gender equality issues must be kept on the political agenda. we must do more to support grassroots women’s organisations and civil society, which are best positioned to reach out to local populations as well as help to raise awareness.
madam president, here we go again: it is another uncritical report, another unrelenting push for the militarisation of europe at all levels. a coordinated eu security and defence policy through to an eu army will not make our citizens any safer, in fact the militarisation of the eu is nothing more than a vanity project by commissioners and larger member states. the calls for increased military funding for member states to meet nato capacity goals and the call for the eu to combine its soft power with hard power are ludicrous. it is a promotion of an eu arms industry while social expenditure is being simultaneously slashed. we are all well-versed in the history of europe to know what happened the last time that europe became extremely militarised. will the only difference now be that this time the guns will be pointing outwards instead of in? may i also conclude by stating that reports like this are further evidence of the contempt for neutral member states by many in this parliament and the european institutions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – madam president, the fundamental reason for the volatility in agricultural markets is the globalisation of our food supply, and allowing speculation on world commodity markets to dictate prices to the detriment of the primary producer. using financial instruments in cap for managing price risks, rather than reducing and addressing the causes of price volatility, ignores the reality. the financialisation of our food supply, where you have highly organised financial institutions with access to information exerting control over fragmented producers, the level of support they get and therefore food supply, is another step along the road of locking farmers into a treadmill of debt and below—cost production. it is the normalisation of a form of slavery for the farmers. farmers themselves have to realise that the best long-term solution to price volatility would be product diversification, and for them to focus on what the market required and not to buy into the spin of the vested interests and to engage in a race to the bottom for the benefits of multinationals. trade agreements such as ceta, ttip and mercosur further increase problems by exposing farmers on both sides of the atlantic to increased pressures that they simply cannot bear. when we hear of the positives, we hear about positives for the agri-food industry. this does not necessarily mean positives for the farmer. whether these trade agreements will bring difficulties in a financial sense or in a mental health sense because of extra competition, it is not going to be worth it. on basic income we need that, not just in farming but in a lot of different sectors. mechanisation will make sure of that.
madam president, less than a month ago we saw the publication of the agricultural markets task force report on enhancing the position of farmers in the supply chain. that report correctly cited farmers as the main shock—absorbers in volatile markets. now before parliament we have a report that denies exactly that. the control by corporate market forces over agricultural prices is the main source of volatility, yet this report would see the problem being the solution: mutual funds, private insurance schemes and increased competitiveness on third markets are all cited as tools to stabilise farming incomes and reduce farm debt. farmers, who are price takers and not price makers, stand to be swallowed up by a system that pushes private institutions to deal with the agricultural crisis. i believe that if we support this report we will be doing a huge disservice to our farmers and to the communities that depend on them.
go raibh maith agat, to the uachtaráin. the efsi has to be set up as a foundation, and the funding must be based on a locatch. in ireland, for example, over 15% of the laws in the hundred thousand already give rise to immigration. i've been talking about our young people and dreaming about the future and not giving an advice about how to live today, but maybe the future. "mair, the chapaill agus gheobhair féir is an outlook for any immediate investment to provide employment to create jobs to give people a chance to create their own". the european investment fund (eif) is also part of the juncker plan. there are no results comparable to the present, no trade-offs, no access to money for smes to invest in, no simple things to do, and certainly no social benefits to be gained. i'm glad now that the solution to this problem is here; i'd rather be in a hospital than in a hospital again and again and again and then be in a hospital again!
madam president, while it is understandable that much of the debate today was taken up with the unfortunate situation in aleppo, and also the unacceptable developments in turkey, at the same time it is important that we focus on what citizens in europe want at this particular time in relation to their own lives, and that is jobs and growth. i welcome especially the success thus far of efsi. i had the privilege of hosting a conference in dublin last friday, where mr cassoni from the commission and the eib vice-president also came and spoke, and they are setting up an office in dublin. this will help smes to benefit from financing, which will help them to grow and create jobs. we need that right across the european union, because the european union will stand or fall on the basis of what citizens think and how it affects their own lives.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this report. it is a purely technical file making a minor amendment to the regulation on the request of poland after it changed its national laws on insolvency (poland should now be inserted into a formal list in annexes of the regulation). the original regulation in 2013 improved the previous insolvency regulation but it did not go far enough in protecting workers’ entitlements in these situations. but this vote was unrelated to the content of the regulation and due to its purely technical nature – just adding poland to the list of who is covered in the regulation, basically – we voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this technical report which makes a small amendment to the regulation on insolvency proceedings at the request of poland. this is to accommodate the fact that poland has changed its national laws on insolvency to bring them in line with standards so that it can now participate in the regulation.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
in writing. ‒ this regulation lists the designations given in the national law of the member states to the insolvency proceedings and insolvency practitioners to which that regulation applies. i supported this motion, in particular the amendment that stipulates ireland will not participate in the adoption of this regulation and will not be bound by it or be subject to its application (the possibility for ireland to accept this new regulation will always be open after its adoption pursuant to the above-mentioned protocol).
in writing. – we voted against this report over concern about human rights. there is an existing eu-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement in place since 1999, but it excludes the textile industry. in 2011 the european parliament refused to give consent to a commission proposal to include the textile industry in the pca due to evidence of the systematic use of child labour in cotton harvesting related to the textile industry. the commission says this is no longer a problem but human rights ngos believe it is still a problem. we voted in favour of a request from the greens to postpone the vote until after an ilo report next year, which should shed further clarity on the ongoing extent of child labour, but it was defeated. due to the allegations of ongoing child labour by credible human rights and labour rights ngos, we are strongly opposed to this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report which attempted to include the uzbekistan’s textile industry in a pre-existing partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu. in 2011, the european parliament refused to give its consent to the commission’s proposal to include it due to evidence of systematic use of child labour in cotton harvesting related to the industry. despite widespread reporting that child labour is still a problem in the industry by leading human rights ngos, such as human rights watch, the commission thought it appropriate to include it. i fundamentally disagreed so voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the recommendation on ec-uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles.
in writing. ‒ i voted no because i disagree.
in writing. ‒ uzbekistan has achieved substantial progress with the reform of their labour market, especially concerning child labour, since 2013. we need to commend the uzbek authorities for their close collaboration and engagement with the ilo. the progress made by the uzbek authorities allows us to move forward and include textiles in our partnership agreement. however, we will remain extremely vigilant. we want the uzbek government to continue full cooperation with ilo to eradicate child and forced labour and for this reason i was happy with the agreement.
in writing. – we voted against this report over concern about human rights. there is an existing eu—uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement in place since 1999, but it excludes the textile industry. in 2011 the european parliament refused to give consent to a commission proposal to include the textile industry in the pca due to evidence of the systematic use of child labour in cotton harvesting related to the textile industry. the commission says this is no longer a problem but human rights ngos believe it is still a problem. we voted in favour of a greens request to postpone the vote until after an ilo report next year, which should shed further clarity on the ongoing extent of child labour, but it was defeated. due to the allegations of ongoing child labour by credible human rights and labour rights ngos, we are strongly opposed to this agreement.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report, which attempted to include uzbekistan’s textile industry in a pre-existing partnership and cooperation agreement with the eu. in 2011, the european parliament refused to give its consent to the commission’s proposal to include it due to evidence of systematic use of child labour in cotton harvesting related to the industry. despite widespread reporting that child labour is still a problem in the industry by leading human rights ngos, such as human rights watch, the commission thought it appropriate to include it. i fundamentally disagreed so voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the ec—uzbekistan partnership and cooperation agreement and bilateral trade in textiles.
in writing. ‒ i voted no because i disagree.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that acknowledges the steps made by the uzbek government to combat child labour and also their failure to abolish it.
in writing. – we voted against this report. there are certain progressive aspects to the proposed accession of ecuador, led by the progressive government of rafael correa, but we have previously opposed the eu-colombia/peru fta based on both the liberalisation agenda and human rights abuses in colombia. in 2014 due to correa’s anti-poverty measures, ecuador moved to being a middle-income country, meaning it was excluded from the generalised system of preferences, under which it had been able to export to the eu without tariffs but maintain tariffs on imports. however, this fta contains the usual adverse impacts on ordinary people – lack of respect for democracy, social rights, transparency, and the environment. we believe this fta will lead to increased land-grabbing by multinationals in ecuador, and a deterioration in the rights of indigenous people, workers and trade unions. for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the eu-colombia and peru trade agreement (accession of ecuador)
in writing. ‒ i welcome the accession of ecuador to the trade agreement between the eu and peru and columbia and encourage the quick and complete entry into force and implementation of this agreement. this agreement, therefore, will allow ecuador the opportunity to continue stimulating policies on economic and social sustainable development.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which creates stronger trade links with the andean countries.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. this new agreement was signed on 15 january 2015 and conforms with the un convention on the law of the sea as well as subsequent related provisions in other agreements. it continues the exclusive reciprocal access granted to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other’s waters outside four nautical miles in the skagerrak and kattegat area, whilst at the same time ensuring conservation and management measures for fisheries in the area. for centuries, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have together fished in these waters for the same stocks. their historical right to fish in the areas concerned should be respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report. this new agreement was signed on 15 january 2015 and conforms with the un convention on the law of the sea as well as subsequent related provisions in other agreements. it continues the exclusive reciprocal access granted to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other’s waters outside four nautical miles in the skagerrak and kattegat area, whilst at the same time ensuring conservation and management measures for fisheries in the area. for centuries, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have together fished in these waters for the same stocks. their historical right to fish in the areas concerned should be respected.
in writing. ‒ i supported the vote on the eu-norway agreement on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
in writing. ‒ the agreement adds to the support of the historical fishing rights in this area and will also be beneficial for the implementation of the reformed cfp in the kattegat and skagerrak. therefore i supported this report.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report. this new agreement was signed on 15 january 2015 and conforms with the un convention on the law of the sea as well as subsequent related provisions in other agreements. it continues the exclusive reciprocal access granted to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other’s waters outside four nautical miles in the skagerrak and kattegat area, whilst at the same time ensuring conservation and management measures for fisheries in the area. for centuries, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have together fished in these waters for the same stocks. their historical rights to fish in the areas concerned should be respected.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution on reciprocal access to fishing in skagerrak. this new agreement was signed on 15 january 2015 and conforms with the un convention on the law of the sea, as well as subsequent related provisions in other agreements. it continues the exclusive reciprocal access granted to vessels from denmark, norway and sweden to each other’s waters outside four nautical miles in the skagerrak and kattegat area, whilst at the same time ensuring conservation and management measures for fisheries in the area. for centuries, swedish, danish and norwegian fishermen have together fished in these waters for the same stocks. their historical rights to fish in the areas concerned should be respected.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report containing a motion for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of norway on reciprocal access to fishing in the skagerrak for vessels flying the flag of denmark, norway and sweden.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
in writing. – i voted against this report over concern about human rights in georgia. i have always opposed such arrangements between europol and third countries when the human rights standards in the third country in question are poor.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report on the conclusion of an international agreement for the exchange of technical or classified information with georgia. sinn féin rejects cooperation agreements of europol with certain third countries with poor human rights records. in all matters of judicial and law enforcement cooperation, we have always advocated that such cooperation can only happen when there are high human rights standards in place (fair trial rights, defence rights, judicial oversight, etc.), and this is not the case with georgia. in addition, the european parliament has recently voted on a new europol regulation which should ensure that such agreements are concluded in a much more transparent way. the fact that the council has chosen to rush this agreement through under the old regime raises questions. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the agreement on operational and strategic cooperation between georgia and europol.
in writing. ‒ i voted no because i disagree.
in writing. ‒ this proposal concerns the proposed approval of an operational and strategic agreement between europol and georgia, providing for the exchange of information, including personal data. such information could be in the field of specialist knowledge, general situation reports, results of strategic analysis, information on criminal investigation procedures, information on crime-prevention methods, and support in individual criminal investigations. i therefore support the conclusion of this strategic and operational cooperation agreement with georgia would thus aid and reinforce the fight against terrorism and organized crime, which is international by definition.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the exchange of information between europol and georgia.
in writing. – i supported this mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund because it sought to give funding to workers who were made redundant and help them re-skill and develop personally and professionally in order to help them find employment in a different economic sector.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which ensures help for 250 workers who have been made redundant in the automotive sector in spain. the eu financial assistance consists on contribution to 60% of the total estimated cost of proposed measures, representing, in sum, eur 856 800 for the eu budget. the enterprise decided to close after bankruptcy. this decision had a serious impact in the town of sagunto, placed in a region of comunidad valenciana quite hit by the crisis and a long term industrial restructuring. my political group has tabled 7 amendments to this report in order to prevent unfair insolvency cases.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of mobilising eu funds to assist former car workers in the comunidad valenciana.
in writing. – i voted against this file, which is part of the ‘market pillar’ of the so-called ‘fourth railway package’, which is aimed at entrenching market liberalisation and competition in the european railway sector. this file concerns the repeal of a regulation which currently allows member states to compensate railway companies for payments they are obliged to make – for example for accidents at work, pensions for early retirement of workers in arduous jobs, and for costs relating to level crossing facilities. while we support improvements and reform in the railway sector, sinn fein opposes the fourth railway package due to its heavily neoliberal, pro-market bias. in particular, the ‘market pillar’ involves downgrading and repealing existing provisions, minimising member state involvement in the sector and facilitating increased liberalisation and a more competitive market, rather than focusing on improving services. while some parts of the package are purely technical and potentially useful, others are clearly politically motivated, and explicitly promote the full liberalisation of the railway sector. i therefore voted against the repeal of this regulation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the one amendment tabled to this report, thereby rejecting the council position on the text. this file is part of the ‘market pillar’ of the fourth railway package, which i oppose as it is aimed at entrenching full liberalisation of the european railway sector. this file concerns a council recommendation for the repeal of regulation 1192/69, which currently allows member states to compensate railway companies for payments they are obliged to make but other transport modes are not. these obligations include special payments for accidents at work, pensions for early retirement of workers in arduous jobs, and for costs relating to level crossing facilities. the regulation was adopted when rail services and infrastructure were integrated and were closely related to national governments. it contains a list of (now largely formerly) state-owned railway companies, who are entitled to receive the compensation mentioned, while any companies not listed are not entitled to compensation. the commission considers this regulation discriminatory, and rather than suggesting the list be updated, recommends its repeal. this is the same position as the council. since 2007 ireland and 3 other countries have regularly made use of this regulation. therefore i voted in favour of the amendment to reject the council’s position.
in writing. ‒ i did not support the proposal to reject the council position on common rules for the normalisation of the accounts of railway undertakings.
in writing. ‒ i voted no because i disagree.
in writing. ‒ there is no legitimate reason to ask for a further prolongation and that regulation 1192/69 should be repealed without transitional period. the first prolongation was asked to give time to member states to transpose directive 2012/34/eu. the deadline of transposition expired in june 2015 and only one member state (namely germany) has not been able to meet it. however, it is expected to do so by the end of this year (2016). i voted to reject the enf amendment which would have rejected the council position.
in writing. – we voted against this file, which is part of the ‘market pillar’ of the so-called ‘fourth railway package’, which is aimed at entrenching market liberalisation and competition in the european railway sector. this file concerns amendments to regulation 1370/2007 that would open up the domestic passenger market by rail to competitive tender, while restricting the power of authorities in member states to allocate services by direct award. it deepens the liberalisation of the sector, while eroding public transport workers’ rights and conditions, and encouraging social dumping. while we support improvements and reform in the railway sector, sinn féin opposes the fourth railway package due to its heavily neoliberal, pro-market bias. in particular, the ‘market pillar’ involves downgrading and repealing existing provisions, minimising member state involvement in the sector and facilitating increased liberalisation and a more competitive market, rather than focusing on improving services. we therefore voted against the proposed amendments.
in writing. ‒ this file is part of the ‘market pillar’ of the fourth railway package, which i oppose as it is aimed at entrenching liberalisation, competition and the market in the european railway sector. specifically, this vote concerns a council recommendation to amend regulation 1370/2007, opening up the domestic passenger market by rail to competitive tender, while restricting the power of authorities in member states to allocate services by direct award. it deepens the liberalisation of the sector, while eroding public transport workers’ rights and conditions, and encouraging social dumping. therefore i voted in favour of an amendment to reject the text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1370/2007 concerning the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail. i did not support the proposal to reject the council position on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
in writing. ‒ the main goal of this proposal is the introduction of a mandatory competitive tendering procedure of public service contracts (pscs) as a general rule across the eu. member states could continue to award contracts directly until 2019, taking into account that none of those contracts should extend beyond 2022. in this way, the quality of services, efficiency and attractiveness of the railway sector should be fostered. i voted in favour of the report. it has taken into account the need for a clarification and great reduction of direct award provisions in favour of competitive tendering while imposing an independent validation in case of direct award, and also a shorter transitional period, which now also includes a ‘progress review clause.’
in writing. – i voted against this file, which is part of the ‘market pillar’ of the so-called ‘fourth railway package’, which is aimed at entrenching market liberalisation and competition in the european railway sector. this file concerns amendments to directive 2012/34/eu that would open up the domestic passenger market to any rail operator, including newcomer operators, without consideration of the role and functioning of public ownership, large public infrastructure investments, and public funds and public service obligation contracts. in fact, the only policy criterion really considered in this is the promotion of competition for its own sake, with no consideration given to safety, accessibility, social and territorial cohesion or working conditions. while we support improvements and reform in the railway sector, sinn fein opposes the fourth railway package due to its heavily neoliberal, pro-market bias. in particular, the ‘market pillar’ involves downgrading and repealing existing provisions, minimising member state involvement in the sector and facilitating increased liberalisation and a more competitive market, rather than focusing on improving services. i therefore voted against the proposed amendments.
in writing. ‒ this file is part of the ‘market pillar’ of the fourth railway package, which i oppose as it is aimed at entrenching liberalisation, competition and the market in the european railway sector. specifically, this vote concerns a council recommendation to amend directive 2012/34/eu, opening up the domestic passenger market to any rail operator, including newcomer operators, without consideration of the role and functioning of public ownership, large public infrastructure investments, and public funds and public service obligation contracts. in fact, the only policy criterion really considered in this is the promotion of competition for its own sake, with no consideration given to safety, accessibility, social and territorial cohesion or working conditions. therefore i voted in favour of an amendment to reject the text.
in writing. ‒ i supported the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/34/eu as regards the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail and the governance of the railway infrastructure. i did not support the proposal to reject the council position on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport services by rail and the governance of the railway infrastructure.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
in writing. ‒ the proposal of the commission is amending directive 2012/34/eu (‘recast directive’), which should have been implemented into national systems by june 2015. this proposal was closely linked to the regulation on the opening of the market for domestic passenger transport (pso regulation), addressing the main obstacles to the creation of the single european railway area. i believe this deal shows the fragmentation of the european rail market and only strengthens national monopolies where they exist. accordingly, the creation of a large european railway area open and performance will be postponed indefinitely. therefore i do not support the proposal.
madam president, transparency in the management of services and application of funds in our european ports is a priority, which i am pleased to say is at the forefront of our agenda. indeed the enhancement of existing procedures and regulations marks an essential step towards the development of more efficient competition rules within and between our member states. the knock-on effects of the recommendations contained within this report would also prove central to marked improvements in the labour conditions within our ports. also, of course, as we move to implementing cop 21 commitments, the maritime sector is going to play a huge role in that regard, and already there are moves afoot to make it more efficient from an energy point of view and, as the previous speaker mentioned, taking transport off the roads. in my constituency we have a great port, the finest port in the shannon estuary, one of the deepest and most naturally deep ports in europe, and it has huge potential but it needs to get on the corridor so that it can be beneficial for the region and for europe.
in writing. – this file deals with a regulation to establish an updated framework for the operation of european ports, replacing an older directive covering the same sector. negotiations over this regulation have been a contentious and complicated, and have gone on for several years. the proposed new regulation transfers additional powers over ports to the eu, and the european commission tried to make it a tool to gradually increase ‘market access’ and liberalisation in the port sector. sinn féin, along with trade unions and other organisations, are opposed to this recklessly pro-market agenda. both during negotiations, and in a vote in the european parliament in march, many of these negative elements of the regulation have been removed. the new regulation is therefore more technical in nature, removing most of the liberalisation and ‘market access’ agenda whilst strengthening important social and labour protections – including the right to strike. as a result of these significant improvements, and while the regulation is still far from perfect, i voted in favour of the new regulation.
in writing. ‒ this report came to a vote after a very long process of deliberation in the european parliament. i am happy that the text that came before the plenary this time no longer contains any mention of opening access to the market of port services, which was deleted thanks to pressure amendments co-signed by sinn féin. the report now is only concerned with organisation, the transparency of accounts, training and safety for workers. further amendments i supported the first time this came before plenary will result in strengthened social and labour protection and will prevent action being taken against collective industrial action (i.e. strikes) on the basis that they disrupt port services. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report, which will now progress towards inter-institutional negotiations.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a framework on market access to port services and financial transparency of ports.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
in writing. ‒ this regulation (adopted in december 2016) aims at contributing to a more efficient functioning of the ten-t by creating a framework which improves the performance of all ports and helps them to cope with changes in transport and logistics requirements. financial transparency lies at heart of this initiative, supported by the alde group, in order to provide clarity and promote fair competition between european ports –as many member states still provide subsidies to their own ports. moreover, this agreement offers a clear framework for the port services market. in future, all port authorities have to apply the same non-discriminatory rules when choosing their service providers.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this nomination on the grounds that mr parts was a member of the board of the estonian privatisation agency and was responsible for the mass privatisation of industries and services in the early 1990s. he therefore has no adequate background or experience for being a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i supported the decision on the nomination of juhan parts as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. ‒ i voted no because i disagree.
in writing. – i voted in favour of this report, while voting against any aspects that would be detrimental to the environment. the report makes improvements to the commission's original proposal with amendments seeking a just transition for the social conditions for workers in closed-down steel/coal production facilities, a focus on technologies to improve emissions output and a higher level of transparency and increased inclusion of civil society groups in the commission expert groups which decide technical issues that often have important climate impacts.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report on the research fund for coal and steel. this report makes improvements to an original proposal with amendments seeking a just transition for the social conditions for workers in closed-down steel/coal production facilities, a focus on technologies to improve emissions output and a higher level of transparency. it also provides for increased inclusion of civil society groups in the commission expert groups, which decide on technical issues, often having important impacts on the climate.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the research programme of the research fund for coal and steel.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
madam president, in line with the epp, i voted in favour of this report in its final version, given the report’s balanced consideration of the state of human rights and democracy in the eu and beyond. having said that, my colleagues and i from ireland did abstain or vote against some of the amendments. i remain alarmed by continuing incidents of violence and persecution, intolerance, and discrimination towards minorities, and ongoing trends of migration and displacement. however, the advancement of democracy, universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law continue to define our policy in this field. thus we may hope that the shared challenges which we face in this year may be handled in the spirit of bilateral engagement and cooperation as we continue to advance towards the improvement of human rights. i must say that, hopefully, those who continuously criticise the european union and the european parliament might give us credit for the ongoing work we are doing continuously, day in day out, in promoting human rights right across the globe.
in writing. – despite some positive aspects, i voted against the weidenholzer report. i welcome and fully endorse the report’s references to the protection of lgbti citizens, the acknowledgement of climate refugees, strong language on women’s rights and gender equality and its annex, which reiterates the european parliament’s support for the release of irish prisoner of conscience ibrahim halawa. however, some aspects of the report were unacceptable to me. the calls for the development of a common security and defence policy, the strengthening of european military integration, the creation of a common eu asylum policy, the creation of harsh readmission agreements, the selective use of the principle of non-refoulement and more made it impossible to support. sinn féin completely opposes the militarisation of the eu. it is an unnecessary and expensive venture that makes a mockery of the neutrality of some of its member states. we will continue to diligently oppose any further militarisation of the eu and continue to defend irish military neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report. there were some good aspects to the report, including the fact that it proposes incorporating human rights standards into trade agreements, is strong on lgbti rights, acknowledges climate refugees and generally addresses gender issues in a positive way. there was also an annex which reiterated the resolution passed by the european parliament last year on the continued detention without trial of ibrahim halawa. however, the report also made statements about the development of a common security and defence policy (csdp), including strengthening european military integration and making more use of readmission agreements. as sinn féin does not support these elements, i was forced to reject the text as a whole.
in writing. ‒ as national budgets for overseas development and humanitarian aid keep shrinking, due to austerity policies, the european parliament takes account of the human rights challenges in many parts of the world and the eu’s commitment to ensure coherence between its policies, inside and outside the eu, with regard to human rights. i commend my colleague joseph weidenholzer for his strong commitment to protect lgbti rights, to demand respect for human rights standards in trade agreements. i thank all the colleagues who helped with the inclusion of the annex reiterating the resolution passed by the european parliament last year on the unlawful detention without trial of irish citizen ibrahim halawa.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union’s policy on the matter in 2015. i supported the issues regarding lgbti people. i did not support the provision regarding european military integration due to ireland’s position of neutrality.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
madam president, mr brok’s report represents an important and essential evaluation of foreign and security policy within the european union. in line with mr brok’s views, i would consider the safeguarding of eu interests and values to be an important concern in light of the extent and nature of the existing challenges which we face in international affairs. against a backdrop of growing security challenges, the debate regarding the future of european defence cooperation is increasingly pertinent. in fact, 66% of irish citizens would like to see greater eu engagement in matters of security and defence policy, according to a new eurobarometer survey of the european parliament on perceptions and expectations. nevertheless, military expenditure was 0.4% of ireland’s gdp in 2015. i share and appreciate the goal of ensuring greater safety for eu citizens and reiterate that, during the evolution of the eu’s common security and defence policy, our eu counterparts have always fully respected ireland’s sovereignty, independence and neutrality. because of that neutrality, we did not support all the amendments and abstained in the final vote.
madam president, i voted against this report. i am from the republic of ireland, as the last speaker is. the reason i voted against it is because ireland is a neutral country. there is another reason why i voted against it, and that is because many eu member states are hypocrites when it comes to talking about peace. all you need to do is a quick search on the internet to see the masses of weapons that are sold by countries from within this union. reuters reported in january that the german government has approved several arms export deals with countries in the middle east, including delivery of 23 airbus helicopters to saudi arabia, 660 machine guns, 600 additional gun barrels and 550 submachine guns. now can someone tell me what is saudi arabia going to do with that? are they going to cuddle people; are going to make life better for people? no, they are going to terrorise people; they are going to cause mayhem; and they are going to make my life less safe. if europe was serious about doing something about war, they would stop selling the tools of mayhem and stop being bloody hypocrites.
in writing. – i voted against this report for a number of reasons. the report is further evidence of the unrelenting push for the militarisation of the eu at all levels, from coordinated security and defence policy through to an eu army. the calls in the report for the eu to align soft power with hard power are extreme and militaristic. the increased militarisation of europe will not make our citizens safer. only intelligent investment in our police services and cooperation between member states on intelligence relating to crime and criminals will make eu member states safer. calls within the eu for reduced social payments on one hand and increased military spending on the other are not what the people of the eu deserve. furthermore, the report was further evidence of the contempt for neutral member states. it is for these reasons, and many more, that i voted against this report.
in writing. ‒ i rejected this report which, like the majority of reports coming from the committee on foreign affairs this year, focused on security issues. it calls for strengthening the eu’s security and defence capabilities and stepping up defence cooperation. to this end member states should provide additional funding. moreover, the report supports efforts to establish an integrated defence market and the consolidation of the european defence industry. the report advocates stronger cooperation with nato and says that the strategic partnership with the us and canada should be transformed into an effective foreign affairs instrument as a matter of priority. this report offered nothing constructive and is basically just another push for the eu to become a hard military power. for these reasons, i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ i abstained on the report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy. i voted against strengthening military and defence capabilities as well as for providing for additional defence spending due to ireland’s position of neutrality.
madam president, as an irish mep, the representation of agricultural interests is one which lies at the forefront of my agenda. thus i chose to vote in favour of this report given the rapporteur’s efforts to identify tools which will help to lessen price volatility in this sector. in the light of economic, political and natural factors which often prove to be outside our control, i welcome renewed efforts to regulate said volatility in this domain. in doing so we may take a positive step towards the modernisation of existing cap tools. i also welcome this report’s appraisal of the often significant gap between supply and demand in the agricultural market. i would therefore hope that the recommendations of this report will continue to place rural development as a priority on our agenda, thus promoting greater stability in this sphere. having met, in recent weeks, many farmers in my constituency who have suffered unbelievably due to volatility in tillage, dairy and beef, any measures that can reduce volatility and give them certainty as regards income will be most welcome and they will welcome it too.
in writing. – i voted against this report, because despite there being a strong need for updated tools to cope with volatility in agricultural markets, this report falls on the wrong side. it places an over—reliance on competitiveness, reliance on third markets, liberalisation, mutual funds and insurance tools – while ignoring that it is the market orientation of cap that has caused this problem. it denies where the problems are coming from and places private institutions at the heart of the solution. finally, it talks about strengthening the position of producers in the food supply chain, despite the problem being that it has been farmers who have been the shock—absorbers in all of this.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this report because despite there being a strong need for updated tools to cope with volatility in agricultural markets, this report falls on the wrong side. it places an over—reliance on competitiveness, reliance on third markets, liberalisation, mutual funds and insurance tools – while ignoring that it is the market orientation of cap that has caused this problem. it denies where the problems are coming from and places private institutions at the heart of the solution. finally, it talks about strengthening the position of producers in the food supply chain, despite the problem being that it has been farmers who have been the shock—absorbers in all of this.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on cap tools to reduce price volatility in agricultural markets.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report due to the high level of price volatility facing agriculture in the eu.
mr president, i am distressed to learn of ongoing discoveries of new mass graves in iraq and syria, which provide only an indication of the terror committed by isis/daesh. i wish to use this opportunity to express my condolences to all those in iraq who have lost relatives and to those who are still suffering as a result of the crimes against humanity and war crimes committed by isis/daesh and its affiliates. i am particularly alarmed at the situation of women and children in this conflict, and i urge all international bodies to act to provide for their release and safety. the protection, preservation and analysis of all mass graves in iraq, as well as in syria, are essential for the preservation and gathering of evidence of war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide committed by isis/daesh, and to hold the perpetrators of the crimes to account. thus we must ensure that we protect said gravesites in order to prove accountability at a later date. as an epp christian democrat, i want to condemn the continuous targeting, torture and murder of christians around the world. i stand with them and it must cease.
in writing. ‒ i voted against this file which is aimed at giving the commission suspension powers over visas granted to third country nationals on bases beyond their competence. this file would permit the commission to suspend when nationals of the country concerned are found to be illegally overstaying in member states, there is an increase in ‘unfounded’ asylum applications, the third country rejects readmission applications from the eu, there is ‘decreased cooperation on readmission’ from the third country, delays in issuing travel documents or refusing to accept eu travel documents and if there is a ‘substantial increase of serious criminal offences’ related to that third country. for all these reasons and the fact that this constitutes a blatant power-grab by the commission on matters of national competence, i rejected the report.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 539/2001 listing the third countries whose nationals must be in possession of visas when crossing the external borders and those whose nationals are exempt from that requirement (revision of the suspension mechanism).
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this visa requirement. visa policy is a crucial matter for the european union, with repercussions for both external action and internal security. it is because of its importance that it is clearly regulated as an area of shared competence between the co-legislators through the ordinary procedure.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this objection to a draft implementing directive. the issue is that that the draft implementing directive is not compatible with a regulation recently agreed and voted on last october, and goes beyond the implementing powers provided for in the basic act. while inter-institutional negotiations for the 2016 regulation were able to secure comprehensive controls on imported plant material to avoid the outbreak of future plant diseases, the draft implementing act reverses those gains with regard to fruits susceptible to pests, such as citrus black spot and citrus canker. even aside from the fact that the commission is trying to water down the recently agreed phytosanitary rules, the 2000 directive will be repealed as soon as the 2016 regulation takes effect, in three years. so the legal basis for the implementing act will not even exist anymore. for these reasons i supported the objection.
in writing. ‒ i supported the objection pursuant to rule 106: protective measures against the introduction into the community of organisms harmful to plants or plant products and against their spread within the community.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
mr president, i identify the provision of aid and effective health services as a priority for those affected by thalidomide, both in light of their current and future needs. i deeply regret the daily struggles experienced by victims, and i thus support this motion for a resolution as a means to enhance pharmaceutical legislation, transparency in judicial proceedings, and treatment and support for those affected. it is essential that we right the wrongs of failed pharmaceutical monitoring of the past, thus formally recognising victims and providing adequate compensation. in doing so, and establishing a more concrete framework in this area, we may shoulder at least a percentage of the burden experienced by victims. by so doing, we show once again that the european union, and the european parliament in particular, stand up for the rights of the downtrodden and victimised.
in writing. ‒ this resolution deals with the well-known issue of thalidomide – the largest medical scandal of the 20th century. produced by german pharmaceutical company grunenthal, thalidomide was marketed in the 1950s as a safe drug and was used by pregnant women to ease their morning sickness, which led to 20 000 babies being born with severe deformities while another 80 000 were miscarried, stillborn or died in infancy. the product was eventually withdrawn in the early 1960s but the trial against nine grunenthal employees was prematurely ended in 1970 after the federal german government intervened to end it – subsequently meaning that no one has ever received a criminal conviction for the disaster. whether or not a thalidomide victim received any lump-sum payments and special monthly living allowances depends very much on the country they came from. this resolution calls on the thalidomide foundation (which provides funds from grunenthal in germany to help the victims) to be open to all victims no matter which country they are in and also calls for a protocol to ensure that all victims receive similar amounts of compensation. for these reasons i supported the resolution.
in writing. ‒ all victims who are yet to be recognised ought to receive proper compensation from the companies involved, which must shoulder their responsibilities. it is very important to adopt an eu-wide approach to the compensation system, since we are dealing with companies which have affected eu citizens spanning from ireland to spain and sweden. there is no legitimate reason why the victims should be treated differently across the eu, and that is why they should receive commensurate compensation. monetary compensation alone, however, will not be a satisfactory answer. assistance and support for the surviving victims, including their families, is vital so as to help them with unmet health needs, barriers and the stigma they face day in and day out. thalidomide survivors have beaten the life expectancy originally set by doctors back in the 70s and 80s. however, they have been faced with deteriorating health and chronic pain as a result of their disability. fifty years on, the fight for thalidomide survivors goes on. all survivors should be formally recognised in all eu member states concerned and be finally given adequate and fair compensation from the special health fund of the german conterganstiftung.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on support for thalidomide victims.
in writing. ‒ i voted yes because i agree.
in writing. ‒ i voted strongly in favour of this resolution that urges the commission to create a framework protocol at eu level under which all european union citizens affected by thalidomide would receive similar amounts of compensation, regardless of which member state they are from, and to draw up an eu programme for assistance and support (including both financial and welfare provisions) for thalidomide victims and their families.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution in solidarity with thalidomide victims.
the uachtaráin, who voted against the amendment, was not present at the meeting. i voted against the lease to be held by efdd. it's really important that we take care of him. it is a motion that is a means to promote innovation and access to help technologies in this important area of public health. a review of existing regulations on paediatric medicines will prove central to further developments, thus inducing a new phase of scientific and regulatory dialogue and cooperation in this domain. we must therefore continue in our efforts to incentivise the market, reinforcing the extent of our commitment, while identifying current obstacles and the public health impact of continuing innovation in this area. like most meps, i welcome this resolution and its passing here today.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report which called for a loophole in the paediatric medicines regulation to be closed. pharmaceutical companies are meant to investigate whether any drug they bring to market for adults can be used for children (given the rarity of child cancers) but there is a waiver within the legislation which allows these companies not to do so if the diseases are not found in children. but often diseases in children can have the same biological mode of action as these adult diseases so should be investigated. for these reasons i supported the resolution and hope that the commission will act swiftly.
in writing. ‒ i supported this report today as i had done at committee level. although the regulation was a major breakthrough in pushing for paediatric medicine research 10 years ago, today there are loopholes which need to be addressed, as these are preventing development in research and jeopardising life chances. children are among the most vulnerable members of our society and we must act accordingly to improve their quality of life. with cross-party support, this resolution is pushing for an end to deferred investment in paediatric medical research and to ensure that regulatory changes close those loopholes. although the commission makes the point that children’s health is very important in their work, it does not appear to be a top priority. our future is bleaker when theirs is at risk. the commission is not acting quickly enough upon the public’s demands and those of their elected representatives. however, an area this current motion could have pushed further on concerns increased transparency in development and medical research processes, not just with regard to clinical results. i would encourage all of my constituents and interest groups in ireland to submit their experiences to the commission before the consultation deadline on the 2017 report on the paediatric regulation
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions – paediatric medicines.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that stresses the urgent need to assess how different types of funding and rewards – including the numerous tools based on delinkage mechanisms – can be best utilised to drive and accelerate paediatric drug development in areas of need.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this resolution that highlights the need to develop innovative treatments for cancer patients, particularly for children diagnosed with cancer.
mr president, it is my belief that petitions serve as a valuable indication of european citizens’ concerns in the sphere of both national and european legislation and the actions of associated authorities. thus it is our responsibility to ensure that the framework and procedures of the committee on petitions is constantly evaluated and indeed improved upon. by this means we may rely on the results of the processing of petitions and its more intense role in the european parliament and european lawmaking and revision more substantively. i acknowledge shortcomings in the processing and handling of petitions to date. however, in reinforcing our political commitment in this domain we may revise present deficiencies with regard to the timescale and effective conclusion of petitions, the establishment of a clear mandate, and the potential for the digitalisation of this field. should said considerations be taken into account and the full potential of the european citizens’ initiative be realised, my colleagues and i in the epp group would welcome this most enthusiastically.
in writing. – we supported this report because it gave a good summary of the peti committee over the past year, its successes and its failures. it also took a progressive approach criticising the austerity measures and the rise of racism and xenophobia in the eu. it also calls for a participative democracy at the eu and is rightly critical towards the european commission and their engagement with the peti committee. i also supported the report because it called for more involvement in the treatment of petitions, and the maximum transparency when it comes to the open infringement procedures started by the commission against a member state.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report, which is a summary of the activities of the committee on petitions from last year. the report takes a progressive approach, criticising austerity measures and the rise of racism and xenophobia in the eu. it also calls for a participative democracy at eu level and is very critical towards the european commission. it calls for a more involvement in the treatment of petitions, or the maximum transparency when it comes to the open infringement procedures started by the commission against a member state. for these reasons i supported.
in writing. ‒ i supported the report on the activities of the committee on petitions 2015.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions 2015. the report is intended to give an overview of the work of the committee on petitions. the committee’s work programme is not tied in to the commission’s legislative programme, being established by citizens as they exercise their right to petition parliament and share their concerns over various eu policies and legislation. it provides statistics on the number of petitions received, dealt with and closed by the committee, the countries concerned and the matters raised. the 2015 statistics show most citizens turn to parliament for assistance with matters relating to the environment, justice, the internal market and fundamental rights. the committee has the opportunity, and the major challenge, following recent events in the united kingdom, of maintaining dialogue with citizens, as it has the potential to reconnect institutions and eu citizens. i firmly believe the committee must listen to and help solve the problems affecting its citizens because, through petitions, it can assess the impact of community legislation on their everyday lives while making parliament more responsive, helping to solve problems mainly related to the application of eu legislation.
in writing. ‒ i voted in favour of this report that analyses the work of the parliament’s petitions committee during 2015.
mr president, further development of the aviation sector provides us with a renewed opportunity to boost europe’s economy, strengthen our industrial base and reinforce our position of global leadership in this market. i would support this motion for a resolution as a means to harness the european aviation model, thus adapting and responding to the specific obstacles and demands of this sector. greater regulation in the areas of efficiency, infrastructure and investment are, however, crucial if we are to realise the true potential of a consolidated european aviation strategy. i would like to conclude by thanking the commission for its efforts to ensure that norwegian air can get a licence to fly from the united states to cork and, hopefully, in due course, shannon, in my country. it would reduce the price of flying transatlantic and give greater choice, and especially at regional airports it will be most welcome, so hopefully it will happen as soon as possible in cork, in shannon and maybe other airports as well.
in writing. – we voted in favour of this resolution because we feel that it grants more power and information to the european parliament when international aviation agreements with third countries are being negotiated. we supported the fact that the motion for a resolution stresses that the ep has to have an access in order to fully follow the process of negotiation from the beginning and that all necessary (confidential) documents have to be given to the committee responsible. it is democratically correct that the council and the commission should be obliged to inform parliament immediately and fully at all stages of the procedure. therefore, we supported this motion for a resolution.
in writing. ‒ i supported this oral question, which urges the commission to include and inform parliament when negotiating international aviation agreements with third countries. the council has authorised the commission to start negotiations on aviation safety agreements with china and japan on 8 march 2016 and on eu-level air services agreements with asean, turkey, qatar and united arab emirates on 7 june 2016. furthermore, the council is deliberating draft negotiating directives for opening negotiations on eu-level air service agreements with china, mexico, armenia, and the remaining four member states of the gulf cooperation council. the resolution stresses that ep should have an access to fully follow the process of negotiation from the beginning and all necessary (confidential) documents have to be given to the committee responsible, thereby giving maximum transparency. there were some good amendments, including respect for sovereignty at national level and raising concerns related to opening the sky to third-party companies experiencing rapid growth at a time when many european companies are facing serious economic and financial difficulties. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. ‒ i supported the motions for resolutions on the international aviation agreements.
the uachtaráin, i mo thír féin when making a decision on the ucc, is an rud a bhíonn i gceist ag ná coláiste na hollscoile, corcaigh, ach dar ndóigh, san aontas is is cód custaim na heorpa is involved in. as things are changing, as technology is evolving, the commission should look at the rules and how they are being used, in particular to ensure that they are easier to use and that they are more reliable. the eu is also committed to the development of a common knowledge, cooperation, and common rules, especially in the field of the rule of law. we're often talking about brexit, but when the uk leaves the eu, will it leave the customs union as well? but you'll be no sweeter than my own father, éire. it will be more expensive to trade between ireland and britain and less expensive to trade between the south and the north of ireland. so i'm hoping to keep it in the back of my mind until i can get it to work. mar fhocal scoir, ba mhaith liom, like laws in feisirí eile, nollaig shona agus athbhliain faoi mhaise a bhronnadh ar chách. i'm not going to be able to do that.
